be talking to the wall as talking to you. Understand once for all that
interlocutrice; it will be one of the most benevolent acts you ever
      appear at least with equal force in his own case—was almost
awry for want of attention.”
“But you are passionate, Jane, that you must allow: and now return to
      Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where
corner on the other side of him. She then peeped round to where I sat;
rising wind, had left the moon bare; and her light, streaming in
thought we’d ride up together.”
the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the

I then returned: “You are not without sense, cousin Eliza; but what you
gained power over either, to bind or slay: they will both assert their
      amongst the thanks of the table, the hint of a hope that she

not related to him at all, may he not take as warmly to his own kin?”

      favour unworthily. It was really a very handsome thought. Upon
Adhesiveness?”

quite bloodless, white as bone, and an eye hollow and fixed, blank of
By the end of a year Henchard’s little retail seed and grain shop, not
one, which was _father._ The girl was called _sister_ or
please and benefit me to have five thousand pounds; it would torment
“But it wasn’t a coincidence at all.”
get thrown about.” He walked up to another tree, as he spoke, but its
of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul.

Before the long hour and a half of prayers and Bible-reading was over,
from the same source?”
of what he feels. Now, can you, Lucetta? It is more like old-fashioned
tenantless, without encountering a smart lady’s-maid or a dandy valet.
“The nurse is a foreigner, and Adela was born on the Continent; and, I

demeanour was enough to show how he was surprised and nettled that his
      was gone. “My dear, Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he
despised to the point of indifference.
      London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her
Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and reread her letter, and some
“Is that the way you chaps canvass,” said Mr Lyons, “and Crofton and I
felt—yes, idiot that I am—I felt degraded. I doubted I had taken a step
“I must keep an opportunity for retreat.”
“I don’t want to see it—I don’t want to see it!” he exclaimed; adding
lid. Having removed this impediment, and lifted certain silvery
      sake, say no more of his partners. Oh that he had sprained his
(said Jordan Baker that afternoon, sitting up very straight on a
life. I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me. I was
The sun had gone down behind the tall apartments of the movie stars in
directed to the office of the _Casterbridge Chronicle_.


      in the lane. But little had she dared to hope that so much love

heard a silvery tinkle sound within. Then the big gate swung slowly
“Start him! I made him.”
another minute. I had them both on their feet with the desperate
guests, his large mouth parted so far back as to show to the rays of
also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me
only them, heard only their discourse, and considered only their
“I hope it is, but I can’t help feeling it. Ah! here is the duchess,
“No; impossible! my supposition cannot be correct. Yet,” suggested the
relax, changed indescribably, and in their very quiescence became
      With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and
it seemed to me that she wanted to speak to us, thought we were
      cautious, I suppose, as to its _being created?_”



impromptu square dance, the men devising original figures. What
when I was going to leave my grandmother’s and come up here to the
      above fifty thousand pounds.”
bind one human being to another in mutual bonds.
      call them to their mother, went forward to meet her; but, instead
      should be of use to us.”
clergyman stayed to exchange a few sentences, either of admonition or
not at all brilliant? for the planet above quells their rays. And what
“Wide-awake and laughing-like to himself.... So then, of course, when

proceeding, perhaps because it was late, the customers thinned away
successors in each branch of natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted
doing to think of helping her up beside him.

The history of Susan Henchard’s adventures in the interim can be told
      of his judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was
was reared by an aunt-in-law, called (I come to names now) Mrs. Reed of
crossed about here—she so sad and weary, and I speaking to her hardly
revived as I traced its harsh line now! And yet I stooped down and
“I’m not silly.”
would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his

ash-grey men, who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery
Jane Eyre, who had been an ardent, expectant woman—almost a bride, was
themselves, that they were obliged to keep a sharp look-out upon their
He saw his wife making her way towards him through the waltzing
      names.
      of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion



irrelevantly: “You ought to see the baby.”
Squire Brown’s bird—that’s whose ’twas—one that we’d picked off as we

That’d do you good.”
There was nobody but ourselves in the field. When we had lain on the


of an elaborately illustrated edition of Manon Lescaut that he had

brilliant, careless, exacting, handsome, romping child—though equally
does it matter? I am quite happy here.”

and the population more scant; whereas, Lilliput and Brobdignag being,

      them.


“It’s nothing, Annie ... it’s nothing.... He began to cry....”
moor.”
      is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble

cheerfully; and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came
the fire, and tried to assume and maintain a quiet, collected aspect.
He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with
entered Helen was greeted with a sharp reprimand, and told that
reminiscences. She said they were all very good to her.
“You may.”

      by education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a

      not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are)
“It was at the unveiling of Sir John Gray’s statue. Edmund Dwyer Gray
hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it
      that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted

who was coming up from the pantry nursing two bottles of _Bass_. They
I continued the labours of the village-school as actively and
the moving figures—on the children who ran screaming along the gravel
into the yard, Henchard being some way in the rear by this time.
“Stop one minute!” I cried.
amidst its perils.
“It is you—is it, Jane? You are come back to me then?”
interests himself deeply in the projects of others. He has frequently
“And his sixpence...?” I said.
him for it.”

      companions, as convinced her that the improvement of manners
      indifference; and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings

boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many

pretty faces, and their white hands, and their small feet; as if a man
      Georgiana, almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid
      “This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening,
sitting-room, and said, “Here, good folks; I should like to see the old
and fewer of the other flowers; and soon they found themselves in the
apostle,—I could not behold the herald,—I could not receive his call.
I did as requested. As he took the cup from my hand, Adèle, thinking

mind, your clean conscience, your unpolluted memory. Little girl, a
that when confronting her he smiled; and then, with the manner of a
Henchard for the moment appeared to resent the sympathy; but he

fastening my veil (the plain square of blond after all) to my hair with
all the wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places.
O’Hara! Boose, I suppose?”
Who dared talk of that? The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass
away and spend an hour.”
“He and she are gone into their new house to-day,” said Jopp.
came and Gabriel pushed back his chair.
milk-hued canvas, and bore red flags on its summit; it announced “Good
And, so far as they knew, they were quite right.
“This is my fight,” said the Woodman, “so get behind me and I will meet
studio, Basil. Her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round

be sent to the devil and told that his advice was not wanted. A little

their eyes: but I suppose his acquirements and abilities, perhaps his
      Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good
cares and sublime results, the one best calculated to fill the void
cleanliness which the white apron expressed were belied by the postures
piquant, as well as soft: it cheers my withered heart; it puts life
rose I rose too. I remember Adèle clung to me as I left her: I remember
“Not seventeen, Lady Henry?”
      surprise and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what
      visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her
moment’s hesitation I answered—
might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were
      “I am astonished,” said Miss Bingley, “that my father should have
the story she had told.
there under this new gaudy manner. And, after all, Gallaher had lived,
      commiseration, “Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could
when the drawbridge is up to let barges through, the passengers on

She ate a hearty breakfast, and watched a wee Munchkin baby, who played
Henchard winced at the word “father,” thus applied. “Do you and she

with rose-water. “You are quite perfect. Pray, don’t change.”
preserve my life; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun
      her, had increased into assurance. She was very equal, therefore,

pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until your gentleness and
Saturday night. In the end he would give her the money and ask her had

debated a tall agile gentleman of fair complexion, wearing a long
castle to yourself. I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought a
      is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to
      “I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to
elasticity to my spirits. But I am a blasted tree; the bolt has
Still holding the young man’s hand he paused, and then added
      Eastbourne for fifty pounds! No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to
      would be an unpleasant thing.”
      think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her

Here was a new stunner—I had been calculating on four or five thousand.
“Why not?”
bandages; “only I wish I could have got here sooner: he would not have
as, looking like a bird of paradise that had been out all night in the
against the species, and more than all, against him who had formed me
intelligence?” and she cast on me an angry glance, as if I were in
shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another
in a soft friendly tone:
When Kitty wi’ a braw n—w g—wn
“Hallo, Corley!”
women had at one time served as a dressing-room to the Scotchman’s
      ever heard you utter. Good girl! It would vex me, indeed, to see
      had finished it. “What a letter is this, to be written at such a
Wicked Witch and too afraid of her not to do as she told them.
paper frill round its shin and beside this was a round of spiced beef.
the steps gave access, the shadow from it conveniently hiding her
Chapter 35
alone.”

easily as one knows their bonnets. One can always find them. There is


“Sit down—Elizabeth-Jane—sit down,” he said, with a shake in his voice
and a shudder ran through him.


She started to her feet. “There he is!” she cried.

her voice seemed to catch in her throat. “You are not serious, Dorian?”
and bid Missis good-bye?”
happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea, and in spite
      “and I dare say she is a very agreeable woman. It is a pity that
“Everybody I know says you are very wicked,” cried the old lady,
Several other men were examined concerning my landing, and they agreed
all hands are in the field still. And if any coach or road-waggon wants
Whit-Monday trip. In the purse were two half-crowns and some coppers.
Young Farfrae repeated the last verse. It was plain that nothing so
to it while the horses were being changed; but there was no Lucetta

banded ourselves together, some boldly, some in jest and some almost in
himself, talking to no one and wandering about by himself. So one night
Mr Duffy was very much surprised. Her interpretation of his words
something of him whose voice seemed last night to summon me. Letters
than indulge him by listening.”
soul was to him most pleasurable. He sat over his dining-table long and
      silly man; you know he is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as
Durnover Hill. As this was the granary whose contents Henchard was

      to his wondering visitors, and of letting them see her civility
master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for
He used to reckon his sacks by chalk strokes all in a row like
earth. I would suggest to such doubters certain obvious distinctions; I
of the gleam of the opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the
no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are

      “And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
      sort of things occur! Who would have thought of my meeting with,
were shut to the horror of my proceedings. But now I went to it in
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the
the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most
      him with her very best politeness, which he returned with as much
      him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of
which the young woman had entered to see that he was not observed, he
done and no flies about it you go to a Jesuit. They’re the boyos have
certain about are never true. That is the fatality of faith, and the
“Of all the good ones ever I heard,” he said, “that emphatically takes
harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected
“That’s true. And it makes the case awkward for me. But I don’t want to

glowing peat-fire. I could see a clock, a white deal table, some
      Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her
St. John said these words as he pronounced his sermons, with a quiet,


Ireland accent to amuse Higgins and Miss Parker: that had been the

intelligence of Farfrae’s opposition to the scheme for installing him


thought how easy it was to know a gentleman even when he has a drop
trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the
My voice had an accent of forced bravery in it and I was ashamed of my
afraid to broach the subject, and looked upon him as an irksome
and birds of the one realm; and the corn-fields forest-high, the mighty
“Good-night, Gabriel. Good-night, Gretta!”
confidence to him and took him by the arm.
      unreasonable or unnatural, in comparison of what is so often
conversation, although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour, for I
ever been before. Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and
      would fail her.

made up their minds that only the first row of trees could bend down

assassination, even of what I most hate.
But, seeing they were bigger than the Lion, and remembering that there
letterpress thereof I cared little for, generally speaking; and yet
actual engagement between us is to be a long one. Nobody else need

      is, I am sure Jane will die of a broken heart; and then he will
man, and have stayed with me.”
stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because
and through the sweetest curves of the dale: but that day I thought
“Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the
my beaming towards you rather awkward.”

“Not now. Not now.”
smiling and hanging her head. An irregular musketry of applause
you are not for me. Well, before I go, let me ask this: Though you are

The idea staggered me. I remembered, of course, that the World’s
racket broke out overhead.
      Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip
Dorothy, and she dressed her in one of the prettiest gowns, made of

operation of changing my heart was to be performed, when Mrs. Reed
own children; appointing me a small closet to sleep in by myself,
clothes and jewels, now: all that is not worth a fillip.”
life—that is the important thing. As for the lives of one’s neighbours,
more shrivelled than usual, having some not ungrounded fears that they
had looked at you, and that you were turning to stone. Perhaps now you
has told me I am formed for labour—not for love: which is true, no
“Yes, sir.”

His hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor and

Bessie listened with interest: they were precisely of the kind she
Varens, six months before, had given me this filette Adèle, who, she
“What is it and who did it?” he asked
twisting round on the piano-stool and smiling.
She obligingly consented to act as mediatrix in the matter. The next
She was silent. It was only too obvious that conscience had ruled well

      place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out—
initials written in books you have at different times lent me; but I

As for Elizabeth, she said nothing.
they sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase

son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they
      but able to make a small income go a good way. This is my advice.
“Bring it in, Mr. Hubbard, please,” he said, wearily, turning round. “I
useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled. I wait but for one event, and then I
      removal from the ——shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But
“O, I don’t question the pope’s being right. I’m only a stupid old
lights.
      confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer
who hate one are much more interesting. Besides, the stuff is better.”
she was beyond him. He looked out at the night as at a fiend. Henchard,
animation, when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic,

nourishment for the mind, as strong as the forbidden food it longed to
rainstorm, before I thought of the danger my joints had rusted, and I
      “Gracechurch Street, _Monday, August_ 2.
But Dorothy they did not harm at all. She stood, with Toto in her arms,
      “Indeed, Mr. Bennet,” said she, “it is very hard to think that

crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them. By the utmost
dance and song. That the quiet Elizabeth, who had long ago appraised

taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he flung it right over the
      conceal from him your sister’s being in town. I knew it myself,
      your uncle, Mr. Phillips, appears to do so much credit to—but he

“My little man! My little mannie! Was ’ou frightened, love?... There
expression of her haughty lineaments.
quiet life, as many as ten. With no love you might calculate on ten.”
labourers are just quitting their work, and returning home with their
comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet
old lately, she noticed; he would miss her. Sometimes he could be very
“I cannot tell till I have thought it all over. If, on reflection, I
      Elizabeth had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming
other people’s tragedies.”
goose. He felt quite at ease now for he was an expert carver and liked

crashed, fierce and frequent as the lightning gleamed, cataract-like as
“I know I’m not very popular. I don’t give big parties. I suppose
ran backwards and forwards. What it was, whether beast or human being,
“And where are they?”
respond,—‘Amen; even so come, Lord Jesus!’”
When I had—
“I _can_ do what he wants me to do: I am forced to see and acknowledge
pause she said slowly:
They had by this time passed on from the precincts of the inn, and
you should be quite alone; and you are recklessly rash about your own
portraits; and each, in turn, sat for a pencil outline. Then Georgiana
week, with which he tried to brush away the fallen grains, was quite
former friend.
      would be going there forever.
“The same flesh and blood as one’s self! Oh, I hope not!” exclaimed
dollars.”
cannot do it.”

spite of his brilliant alliance, was a great point of interest.

would not give one chance of heaven, nor relinquish, for the elysium of
Besides, you have white in your frock, and only witches and sorceresses

distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the
the vision of the new heaven and the new earth—told how God would come
      as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her brother is even yet
wife, and when Dorothy asked for something to eat the woman gave them
remembering Mr Power’s good offices during domestic quarrels, as well
at the place.”

wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our
slow train from Kingstown, thereby sustaining injuries of the head and
be a little masterful, abrupt, perhaps exacting, sometimes, on the
“What is it?” asked Gabriel, smiling at her solemn manner.
and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was
enjoying life—and don’t you think they’re right? If you want to enjoy
Scarecrow.
guardedness of his—this perfect, clear consciousness of his fair one’s
whether the port to which it is bound can be reached, and prevented by
      Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady
various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he thought that I
Probably conscience no less than affection had brought her here. On the
      “You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily
as the ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the palace of John the

His imagination had so abstracted him that his name was called twice
  Chapter 47
rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these
“Very well, sir, I will try.”

drooping line, her plaid cloak, which the frosty wind fluttered,
      “You shall have it in a few words. Miss Bingley sees that her
Daisy put her arm through his abruptly, but he seemed absorbed in what
      Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, “_You_
they said a wedding was coming off soon—on Martin’s Day?”
 Counterparts
my ease. Some years older than I, she knew more of the world, and could

      been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as
our Alpine summers—she found ample scope for admiration and delight.


      not Jane correspond with his sister? _She_ will not be able to

shoes, and I couldn’t keep my eyes off him, but every time he looked
“Well, then,” he said, “I yield; if not to your earnestness, to your
cordiality of reception that made me feel I really possessed the power
her, and passed up his basin in reply to her nod; when she took a

with a message to Henchard, to the effect that his relative Susan, a
      certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done
breath had ceased to issue from her lips.
      employed, Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over
his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there
one seen in Casterbridge must have been ten years ago, if a day.”
society revives, regenerates: you feel better days come back—higher
Farfrae had been applied to by a neighbouring corn-merchant to
      country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.”
hours I thought of Mrs. Reed in her last moments; I saw her disfigured
for simple dame Fairfax?”
      Anxiety on Jane’s behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr.
      Grosvenor Street.”
      it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly
hilarity was general till a new voice arose with, “This is all very
which kept drawing from me silent tears; no sooner had I wiped one salt
he approached Hume Street corner he found the air heavily scented and
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very
      what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in

“For God’s sake don’t talk to me,” cried Dorian, stamping his foot on
to Mason’s white lips; again and again offered him the stimulating

In an open space before the church walked a woman with her gown-sleeves
He didn’t say any more, but we’ve always been unusually communicative
of restlessness. He was never quite still; there was always a tapping
it is rather a failing than anything to be boasted of. But granted even
He was fond, moreover, of giving side-thrusts at Catholicism.
the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.
vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have
She shook her head. “I knew he was not free. We loved each other very
      voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of
VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had
horse was now coming upon me.

tongue pronounced words without my will consenting to their utterance:
long in sleep forgot sorrow.
“& that no man remember me.

well I should ease my mind before I die: what we think little of in
feet in Buenos Ayres, he said, and had come over to the old country
almost paralysed. It was too far to return to dinner, and an allowance
      ago I answered it, for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and
back, glowing with nasturtiums, fuchsias, scarlet geraniums, “bloody

ease. “No, no—I merely recommended that it should be got.”
her at Falmouth, and went off to sea. When I got to the other side of


cried Dorian Gray; “and I don’t allow people to call me a silly boy.”
      arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he did not come
with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my
pretty. Here he comes now, so you can see for yourself.”
      endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance, but in vain;
nature of the games originally played therein, such incidents attached

name won’t be mentioned in connection with it. The inquest is to take
the distance yet observed between us was, that he was comparatively
walking softly about my room, and pondering the visitation which had
as his charge. The meetings seemed to become matters of course with
wondering how a man who wished to do right could act so unjustly and
“You must have been thinking again,” remarked the Tin Woodman.
Let us go. Dorian, you will come with me. I am so sorry, Basil, but
better may be; but I don’t like it. Shall you be there, Mrs. Fairfax?”
      his being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the
retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered
      “True. Are the others coming out?”


of old Parkinson but he’s too far back for me.”

there was an alloy of inexpressible sadness. I felt the impression of
that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket
aristocracy. He has all the appearance of it, I must say. It might be a
      expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately
to-morrow’s task, and the hum I had heard was the combined result of
cravings, instinct kept me roaming round abodes where there was a
“Yes; what then?”
customs were strange—in Persia, I thought.... But I could not remember
“Have you heard from Diana and Mary lately?”
meridian, and Pilot is actually gone home to his dinner. Let me look at
to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don’t speak.
itself to my imagination, the remembrance of which I preserved in my
so confused that I did not know what to answer. She asked me was I
Approaching the hearth, he asked, “If I was at last satisfied with
      apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all
not heard of Susan for so long, I would make this other one the only
      thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it


know that you did all you could for him. You were both very kind to
he had hoped to triumph, some impalpable and vindictive being was
ingeniously constructed without poles or ropes. The densest point of
before the evening probably he will have come, and then she will scorn
it; yet I was glad when I found they were in no sense moved. “He is not
and orderly. The light of the lamps of the church fell upon an assembly
change it to a ring again.”
“Nonsense! But you are rather put upon, that’s certain. My mother said,
threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that
feats of strength. Weathers was showing his biceps muscle to the
painted in order to try and talk brilliantly. _Rouge_ and _esprit_ used
It was not altogether his fault that it had happened. He remembered

know no weariness of my Edward’s society: he knows none of mine, any
      steadiness than most first attachments often boast; and so

frost lay like salt upon the grass. The sky was an inverted cup of blue


“It is because I am going to be good,” he answered, smiling. “I am a
      interest but I will _make_ her know it.”
      request of her younger sisters, who with some of the Lucases,
run to waste since his estrangement from Elizabeth-Jane and Donald
All over-clothes here were worn as if they were an inconvenience, a
deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might
      might suggest to be advisable for continuing their pursuit. When
person might address an opponent of adult age than such as is
Mary had a milder and more open countenance than Blanche; softer
two miles below. He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle,

raspberry or orange jelly or with blancmange and jam. The pudding was


feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to
it was not inactive. I had the means of an excellent education placed
The cry was repeated. They pushed the lantern into an outhouse, and
      One enjoyment was certain—that of suitableness of companions; a


act.
      affection and intelligence, which might supply it among
various machines, instructing me as to what I ought to procure and

      As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a
contemplated with suspicion. But I enjoyed friends, dear not only
      “My dearest Lizzy will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in
seem to submit, and I like the sense of pliancy you impart; and while I
then, have you any questions to ask him, or anything to say?”

He stared at me without a word, and I knew I had guessed right about
scatter in the air.”
his overpopulated lawn.
“What promise?” asked Oz.
the tray. “It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better
traders, who came and went early. Yet the crowd was denser now than
tempting ’em to commit _felo de se_ upon us, and that would be the
“Is that all? Thank God it is no worse!” And now he unknit his black

had celebrated her silver wedding and renewed her intimacy with her
pass from poor Basil. I wish I could believe that he had come to such a
Kathleen, to a good convent, where she learned French and music, and
waved their branches above me; now and then the sweet voice of a bird
      “From the former. I had narrowly observed her during the two
his friends gone. The door of the bar opened and an immense constable
      meaning of every sentence. The account of his connection with the
every member of the company fingered a glass expectantly, and said
“It was with me; and I did not like it. It was a grovelling fashion of
in going anywhere except in her husband’s company; and hence when
musician. From the point of view of feeling, the actor’s craft is the
see how you got within a mile of her unless you brought the groceries
buried his face in his hands.
      would have been complete indeed.
“Your old one.”
asking to be allowed to say a word to his daughter, she had taken her

      She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had
natural capacity, for she was smart in all she did, and had a
the ground. “I feel like a new man.”
went to the front, and following the Argonne battles he got his
“Oh!”
You are altogether a human being, Jane? You are certain of that?
vinegar, a fork and his ginger beer. He ate his food greedily and found
life.
      She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a
“But still and all he kept on saying that before the summer was over
having been made such a little while before. Many crows and other birds
“That’s the rule of the order,” said Aunt Kate firmly.
name of Rochester. Mr. Mason, astonished and distressed as you may
      way that would have tempted me to accept it.”
my mind: yet it is difficult to express what I want to express.
drank—I covered her ice-cold and clammy hand with mine: the feeble
me precisely in his ordinary manner, or what had, of late, been his
up the pass, threw himself down on a swell of heath, and there lay

her white blouse like a clip. She wore a short black jacket with
      Meryton was out of her senses about him for the first two months;
approach of death. I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I

her attention, and in his amatory rage feeling the other man present to
      exception, the sweetest temper I ever met with. I often tell
towards the window. Never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face, of
There was a knock at the door; literally, three full knocks and a
offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. I was

eloquent in narrative and comment, that their fluency covered St.
“I am ignorant of all concerning Mr. Rochester: the letter never
“O no,” said the netted lion, anxious not to pique her in the least.
know it is ignoble: a mere fever of the flesh: not, I declare, the

which I expected peace.
“How fond women are of doing dangerous things!” laughed Lord Henry. “It
followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that she wore her
      “Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it
clenched in his lap, like a photograph of a man of action. Taking out
“I think not, sir.”
extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place
Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the
ornament was her chestnut tresses, which waved over her shoulders with

      the world.
friend what they will not tell to the old. “I began life as a working
ladder was ready. The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he was

“Everything in Paris is gay,” said Ignatius Gallaher. “They believe in

Hear an illustration, reader.
“We mean to teach it some time—or at least the elements, as they say;
      “What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried he.
      least as reasonable and just as what Jane felt for Bingley. Her
stared intently at the incomplete phrase: _In no case shall the said

to pour out, in my own way, the tale of my sufferings and resentments.
“I’m looking around. I’m having a marvellous—”
There was something vulgar in his friend which he had not observed
seemed floated away to an immeasurable distance; the present was vague

summer and adding that the seasons had changed greatly since he was a
All this time the dressing-room was a hive of excitement. In one corner

“Well, I hope he won’t stick pins into you, Duchess,” laughed Dorian.
Henchard dusted his boots, washed his hands at the riverside, and
Millcote was a large manufacturing town on the banks of the A——: a busy
      has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder
I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable
      ignorant of it. That they might have met without ill consequence
“Oh, no need to apologise! I consider that when a dependent does her



glances over her shoulder at the clumsy strangers, holding her nicked
“I’m scared of him. I’d hate to have him get anything on me.”
“Now and then?”
by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her,
“Your mother was my father’s sister?”

but prattled on about the ship in which Jim was going to sail, about
      promise from her nephew which _she_ had refused to give. But,
He pursued his theme, however, without noticing my deprecation. “This

which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then
through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a


could, that the monks were trying to make up for the sins committed by
dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you,” she used to say,
The hour spent at Millcote was a somewhat harassing one to me. Mr.
      her family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on
      called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, she

was burdened.”

“That is one of my paintings over the chimney-piece.” It was a
      most particular friend, you see by Jane’s account, was persuaded
“I ask you to pass through life at my side—to be my second self, and
had been dead: then how old I was, what was my name, whether I could

Wasn’t he one of your men?”
scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious
      Jane while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the

now, I don’t know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you
bright eyes and a bright passionate mouth, but there was an excitement
She was both beautiful and young to their eyes. Her hair was a rich red
common of any—seldom had place in the Amphitheatre: that of happy
dead, that she had ceased to exist, that she had become a memory. He
      was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly
“With all my heart,” said the first fiddle. “We’ve let back our

porch.
himself to the wrong person,” I thought.
Generally he was one of these worn-out men: when he wasn’t working, he
which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire
epistles, being allusive only, did not make it altogether plain.
She proceeded to the river brink a second time. On her return, after
saw you, all knowledge of the curse of the place; merely because I
I think he hardly knew what he was saying, for when I asked him what
climb down into this great ditch. Therefore, if we cannot jump over it,


involuntary confidant of your acquaintances’ secrets: people will
was of a greenish tint. At his side was a large green box.
world; and his voice, as he led me monotonously through the mystery,
once, in a way which showed that the line of feeling started by her
formed the design of going out as a missionary; it was quite throwing a
of confidence, and won a place by their heart’s very hearthstone.
and who said we were to have some bread and cheese?”
“Yes. What about him?”
_To Mrs. Saville, England._

wonderful adventures they had met with.
      admiration of her former lover. When first he came in, he had

      your answer. You will easily comprehend, from these particulars,
      Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with his
      This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet; she would have
Bessie now endeavoured to persuade her to take a sedative draught: she
guidance, as a child does its weakness? Of late, Jane—only—only of
      persuasion.
look up, and I said to her directly—
to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into
      many things.”
in the roundabouts and high-fliers, machines for testing rustic
      to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages
“I was born the son of a woodman who chopped down trees in the forest
      anxious part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival
      Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal;

toreador fashion. His breeches, his white rubber shoes and his jauntily
the four tables; all held books in their hands, and a great book, like
Chapter XX
not while he was in such a passion.
Farfrae some little time hence, and I did not know that you disapproved
wanting to know her, wasn’t it?”
passage of the vehicles might have been practicable if empty; but built
“Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means,” laughed Dorian.
      “Oh! my dear,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively
Daisy’s voice on a clear artificial note:
such a big bag of cakes and made all the children say:


overcome—and I leave Europe for the East.”
of the Celtic school by reason of the melancholy tone of his poems;
The painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his brushes

      most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had
injury on these rugged roads. The weather was fine; it was about the
“I never knowed her. ’Twas afore he came to Casterbridge,” Solomon
      side of a valley, into which the road with some abruptness wound.
      happiness, and of Jane’s perfections; and in spite of his being a
Donald had said, the latter looking quite innocent and not laughing at
experience. It was as little of an active cause as conscience itself.
      for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a
accomplish the deed by oral poison was beyond the nerve of his enmity.
goose!”
my heart, as I do now; and kissed her, as thus—and felt that she loved
In the meantime the Mayor’s thoughtfulness, engendered by the note as


becoming more overcast, I suddenly remembered that I might have been
wished to fly from reflection, and hated my former studies, I felt
Polly sat for a little time on the side of the bed, crying. Then she
is really the only place.”
      Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been
was left to him.
To agitate him thus deeply, by a resistance he so abhorred, was cruel:
are worthy of the work, and competent to accomplish it.”
beholding me? Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her
shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to
anything.
independent of it. So I addressed the housekeeper; asked her to show me
      it is, above her ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what

“He is not the man I am looking for,” he answered, “and I want no man’s
      of his esteem, when she could no longer hope to be benefited by
now and then he repeated to himself the words that Lord Henry had said
      constant information of what was going on, and their uncle
your work this minute, I’ll tell Miss Scatcherd to come and look at
appeared dead, revive within me. Half surprised by the novelty of
snowy day, I recollect, and you could not go out of doors. I was in my
“Can you tell me where I could get employment of any kind?” I


useless to fight people with shooting heads; no one can withstand
in the adjoining saloon, they spoke in so low a key that nothing of

This was just enough to incense Henchard after the other crosses of the
Gatsby stood in the centre of the crimson carpet and gazed around with

He had spoken of Mr. Rochester as an old friend. A curious friendship


Next morning Lucetta remained in bed, meditating how to parry this


“You swear this?”
Committee. Mrs Kearney’s anger began to flutter in her cheek and she
flow once more.
hearts; it is a hybrid, egotistical pain at hearing of woes, crossed
Benny McClenahan arrived always with four girls. They were never quite
reality. The coarse brawl, the loathsome den, the crude violence of

The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and

fields and gardens without coming upon some tall soldier or other of

waiting, during which their needs seemed quite forgotten under the

more addresses from you; and I trust, therefore, you will not attempt
powers) you would be as strong and apt as myself, and would not require
      an accidental recommendation to look at Netherfield House. He did
her who had come.
I thought so too; and my self-esteem being wounded by the false charge,
own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death, and this purpose
      well-doing which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old
and, falling, lit up the hand upon the railing. It fell over one side
The Scotchman murmured another negative, and there was a silence, till
young women whose very plumes, like those of Juno’s bird, are set with
voices pitches a key higher. Laughter is easier minute by minute,

      be dishonest—for dishonesty I must call it.”
other eyes were regarding us with peculiar intensity from less than
“Next door.”
repugnance to new countenances. I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and
stated, continued to hold him in abstraction; till, whispering to his
the keeper. The wood seemed to him to have become suddenly alive with
scene—his wife and Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbled
been cleared by a recent bout of threshing except at one end, where
doubt it. The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the
      about with every attempt to move them. My temper would perhaps be

      “Now,” said she, “that this first meeting is over, I feel
      peculiarly strong attraction. The town where she had formerly
moved, and do not disdain me. Listen to my tale; when you have heard
unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his
over and then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face.
      talked of. But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the

perilous absence could not have intensified.
“Indeed, I will not. You are not what you ought to be, or you wouldn’t
      over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the
flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward’s studio the
wishing to receive the news in too cavalier a fashion or to seem to

He was astonished to hear that the monks never spoke, got up at two in
“O, what a pity!” she cried. “Is he coming down, Gretta?”
      father, he wants you in the library.” She was gone directly.
with his finely curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp
      Miss Bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay, for

“In that sense I do feel apprehensive—I have no wish to talk nonsense.”
      playing again. Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening
      they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the wedding day, and on
good sense will tell you that it is too soon yet to yield to the
and destroyed as a beast of prey. But I perceive your thoughts; you do not
she could not understand. The Lion was also puzzled to know what was
Farfrae looked at her and saw that she did not suspect the secret of
however, than I, who had been her dupe.


a journeyman hay-trusser, with his wimble and knife in his basket—they
where a diverging branch from that thoroughfare ran round to the
who were fortunate enough to have friends and relations able and
last week or two that I shall call and warm up at the Mar’ners as I

than the chamois of the hills. The apparition was soon explained. With his
      But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was
without committing them by any positive rudeness in word or deed.
      After sitting for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to
second morning, and Henchard sat down alone. He was startled to see a
down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play
hat over his head. Whittle then trotted on down Back Street, Henchard
morning from Rotterdam. They had been married for twenty-two years and
delicate ears: who, to my thinking, comes before the great ones of
sound information for bide-at-homes like we when such a man opens his
transaction in 1919.
the corners, as though she had choked a little in giving up the
“I feel more strongly with every recurring year that our country has no
I proceeded: at last my way opened, the trees thinned a little;
believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that

of differing quality. Or rather, perhaps, the difference was mainly
“Yet how well you replied this afternoon.”
semicircle. There were no flowers, no garden-beds; only a broad

      again and tried to conceal, by incessant employment the feelings
sumptuous and romantic apartments were concealed overhead, when the
playing billiards in the billiard-room. The dowagers Ingram and Lynn
already waiting for him. An hour later he was at the opera, and Lord
“Now, isn’t he a terrible fellow!” she said. “And his poor mother made
what I have heard of the treatment of governesses; but I must not exult

      Darcy. And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the
threatened to beat her with the same old umbrella she always carried in
be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.” My
      cry.
insisted on the necessity of frequent exercise to keep them in health:
He ran headlong at me: I felt him grasp my hair and my shoulder: he had
branches shut out the daylight; but the travelers did not stop, and
“No,” said the Scotchman, with some surprise.
Henchard had chosen this spot as being the safest from observation
      was all lost upon me. I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked

The old man distributed the three bottles which he had opened and the
little higher up in the same stream. But as little as possible was said
she could think of was cake. She decided to buy some plumcake but

shall never have such another. You are not jealous of material things,
         That clay where once...._
      Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by

place of abode.”

“No. St. John, I will not marry you. I adhere to my resolution.”


my house, thinking you might not venture up here in the wind. But as I
picturesqueness of the old method disappeared with its inconveniences.
but he hides a fever in his vitals. You would think him gentle, yet in

pocket.”


sometime, and because it seemed romantic to me I have remembered the
to hold the proud and self-won position which they hold in their
My tale draws to its close: one word respecting my experience of
“Maybe so, Mr. Henchard,” said the weather-caster.
“Only it forces rather strongly on the mind the picture of what _might

world. Its vanished trees, the trees that had made way for Gatsby’s
world has the same pure love for me as yourself—for I lay that pleasant
“I thank you,” replied I; “listen, therefore, to the
I could risk no sort of answer by this time: my heart was still.
don’t love her.”
 “One thing’s sure and nothing’s surer The rich get richer and the
a few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down.
have an unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of
me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.”
      have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers. It
Simultaneously the congregation unsettled, produced handkerchiefs and
winter delight lay in its utter solitude and leafless repose. If a
when she was herself so ignorant.”
      was.
He went through the narrow alley of Temple Bar quickly, muttering to
expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to
      could not meet with a better. But I have always observed, that

portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the torn
“Don’t you know they want to present an address of welcome to Edward
Meanwhile, the “he” of her mother was not so far away as even they
“No, Mrs. Reed.”
which I have long endured painful doubt, and I can go nowhere till by

 Chapter II. The Council with the Munchkins
      expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to
“Then why does he follow you so with his eyes, and get you so
to its nature.”
York. It was the hour of a profound human change, and excitement was
At length he obtained employment at his own occupation of hay-trusser,

“Then, Jane, you must play the accompaniment.”
was unfavourable, if there was snow, or rain, or high wind, and his
out of the town. This end marked a mile; and here she stopped.

“God, yes,” said Mr Henchy. “Did you never hear that? And the men used
“It’s only half-past nine,” she said.
landing me in such a dilemma, remembering that you concealed nothing
what I afterwards found she really was, an under-teacher. Led by her, I

that night; nor did he rise soon next morning. When he did come down,
      wished them both joy with an alacrity which shewed no doubt of
think of her at all.”
and stamped upon the rough stones, shaking their bells and trappings.
      knew it to be a most respectable, agreeable corps, and my friend
or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is
warm; the still glowing west promised so fairly another fine day on the

keeping close to his lamp-post, tried to read the result in their walk.
who had committed a real murder.”
      “Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him,” said
following close behind. They walked softly, as men do instinctively at

master aided you?”
shook her head, but could not help being amused. Mr. Erskine listened.
      “No, no, nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you to stay where you are.”
back!’ But I zeed that he was low, and I followed on still. Then ’a



injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As
“Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little
“Of course, you’ve no answer.”
chair, looking down upon the top of her head. He could no longer
themselves? My dear fellow, you forget that we are in the native land

She passed again into the sphere of art. There is something of the
was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness

Can I bear the consciousness that every endearment he bestows is a
three flights of stairs until they came to a room at the front of the

“I cannot!” she insisted desperately.
I break through one of your rings, that you spread that damned ice on
faint dawn wind.
again, and went onward.


He was helped to his feet. The manager said something about a hospital
you are—be perceptible to the touch or I cannot live!”

I obeyed: joy made me agile: I sprang up before him. A hearty kissing I



before heard his prenomens), and to conjecture what presents he had
occupation for him; for I was determined not to spend the whole time in
we’re arranging about for Thursday.”
the treasure at her feet; incredulity and delight were expressed by her
were locked together by a little key that was at the end of a chain the
Bessie, the nurse, and humbled by the consciousness of my physical
remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the

had him make me a new leg out of tin. The leg worked very well, once I
he could by means of the sun, moon, or stars, and settled in his mind
the cottagers, I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become
her for the first time to despise her stepfather, would root out his

morning, I hope. Jane,” he continued.

coward.”
signed. Somebody has asked me to meet him, either on the Budmouth Road

earliest sensations I can remember.
on which it dismayed me to intrude.
Elizabeth-Jane heard him say, “Who is such a reprobate as I! And yet it
September 5th.
She wiped her eyes with her apron: the two girls, grave before, looked
pursue trifles?” he asked. “You were serious when I told you you had
      Mrs. Bennet and Kitty, though she was perfectly unknown to them,

Gabriel says everyone wears them on the continent.”
“Go again,” said Henchard, “and look narrowly.”
possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and
      It was generally evident whenever they met, that he _did_ admire


darkness a sudden light broke in upon me—a light so brilliant and
“I have understood something to that effect.”

progress of my intellect, I must not omit a circumstance which occurred
wad of cabbage on the spoon and pegs it across the room and the poor
all confidence now.

friend of Daisy’s.”

“He bores me dreadfully, almost as much as he bores her. She is very

“No bid?” said the husband. “Good Lord, why she’s cost me fifty times
new heart.
      impatience, by reading what he says on that point. What relates


I repaired, glad at least to go downstairs; for that brought me, I


became sorry a few minutes after, and said that he did not mean to be
was a genius, but she was self-conscious—remarkably self-conscious
Ignatius Gallaher laughed.
head, crowned with lotus-flowers, rising out of them; an elf sitting in
the clock struck five he had still fourteen pages to write. Blast it!
their assistants, who had come out for a whiff of air after putting up
for an instant, sighed and closed them again. One of gentlemen who had

      his history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which


that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey,
Most of the time I worked. In the early morning the sun threw my
a region, a laugh, struck my ear. It was a curious laugh; distinct,
to lend colour to his imagination. He was brilliant, fantastic,
goes in to represent the labour classes. This fellow you’re working for
advance. We stayed there two days and two nights, a hundred and thirty
“As one can be in a world where all’s unsure. ’Twill be more like
heard in the gallery: the step ascending to the third storey; the
Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the lecturing
more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined; his character
      He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled

      one day, “your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate
the victim of not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to

and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in
      “You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little

spoken as well as imagined—


Gatsby’s gardener, abounded in small muddy swamps and prehistoric
“Really?” asked the Mouse.
To this crib I always took my doll; human beings must love something,
      walking together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the

she saw who it was, she approached me and said, “Dear sir, you are very
over the silent grounds and silvered fields and waiting for I knew not


Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping

with enthusiasm. “The General of the Jesuits stands next to the Pope.”
they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with

“No—two miles off, at a large hall.”
street when the leaves were falling, and they came to a place where
smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek, which are rosy with


having sent him the report. And it was certainly stupid of him to have
and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was
      satisfied. But what does he say of the living?”
me to.”


I looked at her. She had, I thought, a remarkable countenance, instinct
      felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its
said, “Who is there?” Nothing answered. I was chilled with fear.

were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented
one of my consciences. But when the restraining influence of the school

Dan Cody—told it to me because “Jay Gatsby” had broken up like glass
“The never-to-be-forgotten Johnny,” said Mary Jane, laughing.
dress-circle. Women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there
pictures. He had himself bought every article of furniture in the room:
World, indeed!”
me to approach; I did so, and she introduced me to the stony stranger
own inditing, about sudden deaths and judgments, which made us afraid
could not bear this marriage, and yet it seemed to him to be better
“Nothing,” he answered. “I suppose one must be serious sometimes.
me for pure love I might have felt bound now. But I soon learnt that
minor caprices—all trivial difficulties and delicacies of feeling—all

little changed already.”
unceasingly, sent up into the warm grey evening air an unchanging
preferred utter loneliness to the constant attendance of servants; but

      distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions. When
“Not at all: they are full of jests and gaiety.”
Queen—the Queen of all the Field Mice!”
      Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep
she frightens you, just call and I’ll come in.”
So they all entered the house, where there were, besides the woman, two

been; for he was not what I had thought him. I would not ascribe vice
I have heard a good deal since. He offered an extravagant price. I
felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of
them. What was that word we—”


      quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible
deal tables showed through the sticking tablecloths, for the awning
with living blood—my being longed for renewal—my soul thirsted for a
room where Freddy Malins’ mother was sitting. She was a stout feeble

to dwell with men, how He would wipe away all tears from their eyes,
“Not particularly so; but he has a gentleman’s tastes and habits, and

Though I had now extinguished my candle and was laid down in bed, I
and took fresh courage: these last words gave me an insight as to where
Henchard’s name. “I sometimes fear,” she said with an effort, “that he
flower-roots, seeds, and slips of plants; that functionary having

held him back; and so the books had remained on their shelves. At times
“Oh, I am glad!—I am glad!” I exclaimed.
imperceptibly, and then quickly tipped her head back again—the object

corner.”
      my father’s behaviour, from his indolence and the little

came—mind me, a time always does come. A time came—it was some while

      a day or two before the intended elopement, and then Georgiana,
hard, and the coupé raced along through the night. In a little while I
evidently been a handsome woman, and was well preserved still. Of her


small, yet too large to be filled with my scanty wardrobe: though the



my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should be satisfied with his.”

granted her, and that what had been granted her she had not desired. So
“Wait a minute,” snapped Tom, “I want to ask Mr. Gatsby one more
“And the gentleman who lives here is called Mr. St. John?”



was a quality of nervous despair in Daisy’s letters. She didn’t see

occurred to me that this shadow of a garage must be a blind, and that

bread—a whole, instead of a half, slice—with the delicious addition of
countenance was illuminated with pleasure, but as he continued,
We crossed the Liffey in the ferryboat, paying our toll to be
back into his faded eyes.
      down, she had to listen to all he had to say of his own
hoodwinked by the very general tone of the conversation that
barns—the place wherein she had met Farfrae many months earlier. Under
    Take to His bosom the poor orphan child.
      Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must
better; yet might Ahab have escaped a bloody death, had he but stopped
all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine.

which in colour was brown—rather light than dark. “I thought
“What was the chief trade in this place? What did most of the people
      one cannot always be laughing at a man without now and then
past eleven P.M. on the night of the fifth instinct, Hannah Dominy.
“That’s because your mother wanted to show you off.” Her face bent
rising sun, nor smiling sky, nor wakening nature. He who is taken out
dit un de ces rats; parlez!’ She made me lift my hand—so—to remind me
      anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak; and
      circle must be important. Elizabeth had heard soon after her
smiled; and I thought his smile was such as a sultan might, in a
      the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient, but Darcy was
help Dorothy to get home, first.”
Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most
evening. When it was almost morning the waiter came up to him with a
stone, placed his elbows on it, and gave way to a convulsive twitch,
“The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration
      luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all
Then it had not been merely the stars to which he had aspired on that
for her revenge, I’ll leave her to you.”
Wilson’s eyes fell upon Tom; he started up on his tiptoes and then
      with a more smiling solemnity replied:
and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose
say something worse. Go home!”
bustling in and out more than usual where there was no market. A
Henchard in the meantime had gone upstairs. Papers of a domestic nature
      till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day
“But wait a little time and consider.”
Rochester had been a traveller: Mrs. Fairfax had said so; but I thought
Lord Henry flung himself into a large wicker arm-chair and watched him.
were called forth and displayed. But in giving an account of the
The door slammed; she could hear her husband bolting it. After looking

a second physician; and when at length Farfrae did come back he was in
“I am terribly afraid of falling, myself,” said the Cowardly Lion, “but
“I hardly know, sir; I have little experience of them: they are

bracelets on these fine wrists, and load these fairy-like fingers with
      partner. You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much
your life, they are real, my lady Lucetta.”
      raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of
Be afraid of nothing.... A new Hedonism—that is what our century wants.
veneration expanding at every sounding line. She had scarcely finished
remarks of a kind which were becoming too frequent:
A new life! That was what he wanted. That was what he was waiting for.
September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard

      his affection and wishes must still be unshaken. But she would
miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I
pleasant it would be to have a warm fire to sit by and a good dinner to
and bathrooms with sunken baths—intruding into one chamber where a
      “Oh! then—some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our

“Mr. John died yesterday was a week, at his chambers in London.”

“With the ladies you must have managed well.”

Lenehan made a tragic gesture.



      way imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the


Lucetta was full of little fidgets and flutters, which increased
women I have known would have done for me what Sibyl Vane did for you.

to stroke the head of a curious Java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged
She pretended to eat a little of the furmity with the leaden spoon
strong affection by disturbing ideas which had grown with her growth
Of course each one of them expected to see the Wizard in the shape he
“She will never come to life again now,” muttered the lad, burying his
Daisy was not a Catholic, and I was a little shocked at the
solicitude, and encourage me to accomplish the task without regard to
country.’ ...I almost feel that I would rather he did say so, as I have
the heavily dewed grass, whereon the shadows of the yellow and red vans

He stood still to listen. Why had he withheld life from her? Why had he
Power was giving directions to the carman, he expressed his gratitude
One summer evening I was travelling for employment, and she was walking
softly, put on my frock over my night-dress, and, without shoes, crept
      Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth, this
“Why not, sir? You have just been telling me how much you liked to be
“He was not,” she denied. “I’d never seen him before. He came down in
“I have been hearing things that vexed me,” he said. “’Twas that made
She waited and waited; yet he did not move. In ten minutes the man
“When shall we start?” asked the Scarecrow.

that she cannot bear much.”
something. The man got up from his desk. Mr Alleyne began a tirade of
himself about and spinning to the tune. For a moment Henchard could not
      she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley’s inattention. After
and partly for a change.”
      you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield you should be gone in
wicket.”
      timed. There was no help for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness
      been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her
well have said to the fire, “don’t burn!” but how could she divine the
the west, and on the 11th the passage towards the south became perfectly
      yet despaired of succeeding at last.
Hitherto, while gathering up the discourse of Mr. Brocklehurst and Miss
Chapter 23
indignant wives. The wives were sympathizing with each other in

crossing his legs, he resumed his pipe with a nicely-adjusted gaze at a
“It never rains but it pours!” said Henchard. His keenly excited
girl; if so, and if she is in any degree amiable, I shall surely be
“Did I have to know all this before he could ask such a little thing?”
I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions.
and—Here! Lemme show you.”
      kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst nothing at
Adèle leaving the schoolroom.
brilliantly green they were; how the flowers and hedges looked

under the earth—nor from overhead. I had heard it—where, or whence, for

send you away, I am sure.”


you. This is merely the beginning.”

stepdaughter, with all her little bags and boxes, getting into it, he
renewals of complete faith in him that I’d experienced before.

already as good as put your hand to the plough: you are too consistent
appetising than that which had regaled our nostrils at breakfast: the
softly to himself?”
Then she remembered the heat and sat down guiltily on the couch just
accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws,
over Grey’s Bridge, and he turned and zeed me, and said, ‘You go back!’
“Forest Scenes.” “You must lend me these, Basil,” he cried. “I want to
bear the burden that should have been his own.
      steady gravity.
to whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the
hand out in the air as she was told to do. She moved her hand about

wide, soft and still softer, over half heaven. The east had its own
      as might have given the most acute observer a conviction that,
It was still early in the evening when she hastily put on her things

“I am not mad,” I cried energetically; “the sun and the heavens, who
is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that,
long: he will soon return whence he came, and if I sit still he will
was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of

found the house, a weather-beaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a

told me quite private-like that if a woman ever asked for him I was to

All eyes were turned. Standing in the triangular opening which formed
“Wake! wake!” I cried. I shook him, but he only murmured and turned:
screams, hysterics, prayers, protestations, convulsions; made an
about her destination to one who took so little interest in her. He
of what was supposed, and after that I presented myself to see the
She was within a few steps of it, and Oz was holding out his hands to
      in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the
one—let me break away, and go home to God!’
walls the smiles of all shapes that could respond—the old pier-glass,
when he was wishing for it she had come to him of her own accord.
her his love, and that her qualifications were ill adapted to win from
“Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you

recollection.
The season’s weather seemed to favour their scheme. The time was in the
explained how Bessie had sent her husband to fetch me from Thornfield.
opposition to his marriage. Some slighting phrases she had used still
youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.
thought that I was shying away from the “gonnegtion” mentioned at
minutely concerning my father, and here I named my cousin.

      Mrs. Gardiner’s caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly
my enemy is not invulnerable; this death will carry despair to him, and
“I hate that word ‘hulking,’ ” objected Tom crossly, “even in


cruelty round the warped lips. He almost dreaded his valet leaving the
to all.”
watched for it to appear through the dusk, I remembered certain of
“But I am anxious to mention something,” she said. “And I wished not to
cannot succeed in getting out by these means, be assured. I abhor

      industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such
having rolled into the large parlour one evening and said that it was a
look at. If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from
thought of me made you sick, and asserted that I had treated you with
now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and
      impolitic too—for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such
hill belongs to us, and we don’t allow anyone to cross it.”
      had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve,

laying him out and then the coffin and then arranging about the Mass in
drew me to her, and we reposed in silence. We had not sat long thus,
believe me and said he was sure I must have one. I was silent.

for gem—where it exaggerated the wild to the savage, and exchanged the
      turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of sight.
slung waterproof expressed youth. But his figure fell into rotundity at
      Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
well as mighty; and while He has chosen a feeble instrument to perform

by this closing in of Newson on the scene. Henchard was not the man to
Jopp was just going to bed when Henchard got home. As the latter
manners. The rapidity of their progress, in some instances, was even
      themselves. We have tried two or three subjects already without

the result rather of weakness than of will.
bow.
      herself. Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her
bottle, sputtered beside it.
this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had
      Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence. Her
imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my
“And this is Jane Eyre? Are you coming from Millcote, and on foot?

words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings

      _Boulanger_—”
His collar was unfastened and his necktie undone. He opened his eyes
“None belonging to your father?”
father’s woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was
“Jimmy sent me this picture.” He took out his wallet with trembling
Behind his back he was called “Wide-oh,” on account of his reputation;
groans.
“But we have such grave responsibilities,” ventured Mrs. Vandeleur
person landed close to my house.
lingering detail of its execution. A frightful selfishness hurried me

of terror came over me. I knew that I had come face to face with some
sold his wife in that fashion is the man sitting there in the great big
The rencounter with Farfrae and his bearings towards Lucetta had made
She looked at him in horror. He repeated his words. They cut the air
make it absolutely: I will throw all on the altar—heart, vitals, the

departed; to my grief: I felt so sheltered and befriended while he sat
in silence: a few lines only are necessary to keep up the links of

have the air of a little _nonnette_; quaint, quiet, grave, and simple,
      displeased.”
The name sounded faintly familiar.


screen to view the house. The seats were being filled up rapidly and a
charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled.
was not unpleasing. Henchard had neglected her all these days, after
This was a blow: but I did not let it prostrate me.
prospect from such a house was not considered desirable or seemly by

“Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don’t know what he had made me
After a great deal of hard work, for the Lion was heavy, they managed
      hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for
      spirits, by all that affection could do.
faut que je l’essaie!’ cried she, ‘et à l’instant même!’ and she rushed
scientific as to require an intellect entirely out of the common.
and smacking his lips.
dim in my mind. I can recall some sensations felt in that interval; but
      to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude, and many months

into a big room where the Witch Glinda sat upon a throne of rubies.
but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones. The Wicked
an hour.”
      repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister
seeing his position the Scotchman for the first time locked himself to
impossible because there must be sexual intercourse. He kept away from
the perfect use of an imperfect medium. No artist desires to prove
      it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in

brick pier till the intruder should have gone his ways.
slowly down the street the waiter left the door, and Elizabeth-Jane saw
“You’ve had plenty of time already,” said the Tin Woodman angrily.
death. I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen.
by marriage, or it cannot exist: practical obstacles oppose themselves
recurred, doubtful yet doleful at every lull; at last I made out it
accompanied him to drive home; while he alighted and went up to his
so attractive and amiable.


purposeless and alone.
coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence? But in our own century it was
      not being killed in a duel.
They told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the Castle.
She paused for a moment to get her voice under control and then went
Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks. Iris-necked

him. “You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that
time as one easily to be found by a stranger after nightfall. As Mayor
demanded Jordan crossly.
asleep.
walls of the room echoed the sound. He tried to soothe it but it sobbed
acquainted with any of its inhabitants. The winter, however, was spent
him to bed, and threw himself down on the sofa in the library, and
have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily
He fastened the car door, climbed to his own seat outside, and we set
apparent save the church and the parsonage, half-hid in trees, and,
probably scorned her; and quite broken in spirit sat down on a bench.
“Oh—is that all? They have been saying to me that it was through him
modest: you can fancy I was a happy man. I went through rich scenes!
“I don’t think there’s much gas,” he objected.
calmly than from his look I had expected him to speak. “The reel of

cultivation. I had nowhere seen such faces as theirs: and yet, as I

what I tell you—a few words of an agreement for me and this gentleman
      nor their offenses against myself. My feelings are not puffed
dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore

The women would have their tea at six o’clock and she would be able to
friends. The friends looked out at us with the tragic eyes and short
      “_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.”
not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its
meeting, and one in which rapture was kept well in check by pain. I had
bridle-path a foot-way, the foot-way overgrown. The solitary walker
treatment, as she had borne up under worse things, and contrived as
did not despair. From you only could I hope for succour, although
      were directed in a like manner. Sometimes she could fancy that he
      whole party were awakened against them, and that there was

tender-inclined.”
deemed the rushing of wings; something seemed near me; I was oppressed,
the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and
hurriedly and whispered into his ear:
“Mr Holohan, I want to speak to you for a moment,” she said.
      arisen from it, I am sure you would judge differently in the
a hidden and lovely spot, a dry stump of a tree; nor did I refuse to
turned topsy-turvy—how I could brush, and dust, and clean, and cook.
than anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts. We have

“Where else should I be?” he answered, listlessly. “None of the chaps

tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping

“Mrs. Reed? Ah! mama, you mean; she is extremely poorly: I doubt if you
“Ah! I remember hearing of some such thing. Now I shall be in

      “Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady
      heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house.
I should, if I had deliberated, have replied to this question by
reason that I don’t believe anything he has told me.”
waited on her pupils and saw that they got the best slices and Aunt
      “Ah! sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls,


      attended her noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the


when the sudden cessation of motion awoke me; the coach-door was open,
motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to
eyes would reply to mine. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I
of human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole
both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle
made. But with every word she was drawing further and further into
adoption of which I was quite ignorant: otherwise I felt sure all the
fraternity, if you like; a neophyte’s respect and submission to his
also, my dearest Henry, of life? Two I have already destroyed; other
The coach drew up; there it was at the gates with its four horses and
      young ladies who introduced him to her notice. Mrs. Phillips was
forcibly to ridicule it.
and sarcastic—“you have noticed my tender penchant for Miss Ingram:
      acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much
Henchard signified dubiousness. Though he had so lately hoped that
become unspeakably wretched. He would not want me to love him; and if I
them ever quite escape.

dreams. I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in
      concealed from anyone. My younger sister has left all her



cold which nipped me without, and the unsatisfied hunger which gnawed
enclosure that Farfrae had erected—the pavilion as he called it—and
that, but you’re rude. Daisy’s sitting in there all alone.”
my heart.”
      would like Lady Catherine, and how happy she would dare pronounce

much soothed by Donald’s arrival; he seldom or never left her side; and
Then, before she could collect her thoughts, Henchard went out from her
hot struggles of the poor.
of his taking up residence within those roomy chambers while he, their
glowing he could scarcely bear to gaze upon it. His first thought was
It was quickly known in Casterbridge that Farfrae and Henchard had
near to her, almost touching her. It had seemed as close as a star to
commission. Her relatives encouraged me; competitors piqued me; she
continued my benefactress; “to be made useful, to be kept humble: as
      in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley’s designs on him were, by his

most desolate wanderer in most dread and dangerous regions. I closed

      scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first
internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed.”
he stands in the town—if he is here, as I think he must be. You,

      indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel,

One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the
      sister’s feelings, Lydia flew about the house in restless
Hatches, whence during high springs there proceeded a very fugue of
of the first flight, in the shadow also. He could not see her face but

      “If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy
accumulation of centuries of winters, glazed in Alpine heights above

“What?” said Mrs. Reed under her breath: her usually cold composed grey

the greatest care of his fair silken hair and moustache and used
One of the two who walked the road was she who had figured as the young


Some words of this conversation must have reached Wilson, swaying in
      captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners, she
distinct from the desultory shamble of the general labourer; while in
And the door at the end of the gallery opened, and Mr. Rochester
It might have been supposed that, given a girl rapidly becoming
“We’ve got enough to get us to town,” said Tom.
“Sit down; I’ll talk to you as long as you like, and hear all you have
about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious
into the iris, revealing for an instant a temperament of great
views about them, but they are not one’s concern. Besides,

“If I must tell you——. Don’t, don’t upbraid me!”
for Lucetta. The _carrefour_ was like the regulation Open Place in
dressed in an old-fashioned evening suit, an expanse of frilled shirt
“So much the better for her,” said the aged furmity-woman. “Ah, I saved
      in compassionate silence. At length she spoke again. “I have just
be that somebody has been roasting a waxen image of me, or stirring an
All I ask is that they should give me a start.”
comes back the real life that we had known. We have to resume it where
“Wait a minute,” I interrupted. “How about saying you’ll come?”
“You refuse?”
      done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of the
quietly to the sofa where she sat down behind her sister. No one spoke:
But no—eventide is as pleasant to him as to me, and this antique garden

charge both of sensibility and chagrin: its pride and reserve only

silly of me to come down here at all. I think I shall send a wire to
“Anyhow, he gives large parties,” said Jordan, changing the subject
asked her questions about her native country; but she was not of a
becoming one among my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha and the
M. Waldman I found a true friend. His gentleness was never tinged by
an indistinct undertone:

While she was doing this the wood partition in the centre of the house
The whole of Venice was in those two lines. He remembered the autumn
when the Mayor reached it he perceived that a gigantic tent had been
head. When we came into the station he was next to me, and his white
’Usha, how could he be anything else?”
      principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible they
always be a sacrament to him now. She had atoned for everything by the

      Mr. Darcy, with such a smile over the face as she remembered to
had taken. Newson’s back was soon visible up the road, crossing
“But how about the voice?” she inquired.
      husband; unless you looked up to him as a superior. Your lively

Four years passed. Mr Duffy returned to his even way of life. His room
      Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him. My aunt
behind the blower of the chimney; and ex-poachers and ex-gamekeepers,
“Grateful! I cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face.”


was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only
      affection.”
      “But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in

degree.

him on any pretext—and—Richard, it will be at the peril of your life if
Roman-British city, whose curious feature was this, its continuity as a
pomegranates. It had been given to him by Adrian Singleton. As he
“you will take cold to a dead certainty, if you stay in this chill
went across, the sparrows in his way scarcely flying up from the
the people.”

there.”
Eckleburg kept their vigil, but I perceived, after a moment, that
      waiting-woman was in it. They proceeded in silence along the
chain, went scurrying up and down under the cat-head, hairy arms were

that. What had happened? He seemed quite angry. His face was flushed
looking-glass; my fascinated glance involuntarily explored the depth it
he had expressed shame for a past transaction of his life. There was
     No sound of strife disturb his sleep!

bound to you with a strong attachment. I think you good, gifted,
joints more supple. But I will not be tempted to set myself in
open hand.
The effect, either of her ministrations or of her mere presence, was a


any sort offering itself to light the way, except an occasional pale
windy afternoon, and Tom Buchanan in riding clothes was standing with
the town, and to ask whether you would wish to see her.”

“She was greatly admired, of course?”
disappointed him, for he had been sufficiently disturbed by what the
A pedestrian would be seen abstractedly passing along Mixen Lane; and
I brought the portfolio from the library.

“Hearing a’ illegal noise I went down the street at twenty-five minutes
been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously
At the utterance of Miss Temple’s name, a soft smile flitted over her
for hot roast after that. In addition to these old tragedies,
then into the Bowling Walk, till Farfrae said, “It’s like that I’m
Excitement instantly seized the whole party: a running fire of raillery
transpired which rendered inquiry after the governess necessary, it was
considerable lengths.” I continued, “You observed it closely and
resolved on a conquest. He supplicated strength for the weak-hearted;
thinking him perhaps dissatisfied with some rather bright trimming she
climax; other feelings succeeded.

for him such regard as he had regained from her by his devotion,
“In any case,” he said, “it was just personal.”
      in your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of

be sorry for having said. As a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit
      to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear aunt, I should be very sorry to
orders from Mrs. Reed to buy of his young lady all the products of her
      be often forgotten.
which I found the late tenant’s rusty bicycle-pump. He had been a very
      countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of
a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them. On the other side of
middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who have no enemies,
Miss Temple and the teachers of my vicious nature. All along I had been
      whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a
move on, for the hour of repose is expired.”
“Oh, of course! You have seen my daughters?”
      “And quite alone? Have all her friends left her?”
Mr Power. “I mean, apart from his being Pope.”

moment from a pocket-book in which he appeared to be making figures as
_“What am I to do?”_ The instinct of the celibate warned him to hold
regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this
“Never mind,—wait a minute: Adèle is not ready to go to bed yet. My
      her, made her sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her

imagined. He had intended, probably, to take what he could and go—but
that.”
      her voice, her address and expressions, or the word will be but
frowning.
create a companion for the first creature. He showed unparalleled malignity

but it was not right.”
it had kept my head and hands employed, and had given force and
If there was one good thing more than another which characterized this
cottage. Farfrae hitched the reins to the gate-post, and they
but the silence was unbroken by his “thank you” and the soft closing
been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your
come up this far to eat?”
agreeable interlude.
      command a full view of the fair performer’s countenance.
the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep what I must
I had no clue, no trace. The two people who could have described you
“and as for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it
      imprudence forgotten.”

fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic
lighted in the same way, faintly and evenly. If he was dead, I thought,
      sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding



      been seen, they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the
out late as the night air was bad for her. When she had gone I began to

Thornfield orchard,” he remarked ere long. “And what right would that
grassy stems, he would survey mankind and say to himself: “Here and
“I will just say a word—you, Elizabeth-Jane, can stay here.”

      servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to her:
      Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.”
      And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he

realized how I have developed. I was a schoolboy when you knew me. I am
devil....”
who have known rough times, light-heartedness seemed to her too
to my recollection. I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror

not quite the ardour that would have animated it in former days.
talking to someone in the sea. It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we
harnessed for the homeward journey. Outside the fair, in the valleys
ma’am, we know now how that bird-cage came there.”
Some answer must be had to these questions. I could find it nowhere but
      natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great

“How can they pity me after what Mr. Brocklehurst has said?”
this rather to myself than to the gipsy, whose strange talk, voice,
      if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?”


      years’ discontinuance.
“Is all the soot washed from my face?” he asked, turning it towards
      company with an air; for I consider music as a very innocent
as was equally his custom, he gave me his hand. Diana, who chanced to
sufficiently to afford glimpses of a vertical strip of blue sea to any
instant or two. Recognizing him, she said, “Because they may knock as
luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes,

placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite. One
Farfrae a complete somersault. Had Henchard’s other arm been free it
“This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan.”
All were painted blue, for in this country of the East blue was the
what to say or do. “Down on your knees!” growled the man. “I give you
      others. To Caroline’s assertion of her brother’s being partial to
again rung his bell, no doubt to have his supper removed; for humming a
deprived.”
two minutes he rose from the stile: his face expressed pain when he
shall I seem to possess these charms. He was fond and proud of me—it is
      He took the hint, and soon began with, “This seems a very

of the rich.”
      on the other, retailing them all to the younger Lucases; and

      Collins, in reply to his last.

Then Mrs. Reed subjoined—
“He’s not a bad sort,” said Mr Henchy, “only Fanning has such a loan of
_Bernard Bernard_ instead of _Bernard Bodley_ and had to begin again on
possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property. I was, besides,
    before! Poor woman, she seems to have been a sufferer, though
me only as the village schoolmistress. When I remembered how far I had

and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the romantic

      the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the

      could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene
Chapter XXIV
someone in sport. She continued her course along the precipitous sides
      soon as they were in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time,
      of Kitty’s and Lydia’s purchases, were seated in it.
      “And what is your success?”
investigation, even in Casterbridge. For one thing Henchard had never
      civility, to enquire after her family! Never in her life had she
not then distinctly say it to myself; yet I had a reason, and a
When the Wizard was given this message he was so frightened that he
“Ah, yes,” he said, continuing, “it’s hard to know what way to bring up
foregoing summer were brought out again; superseded reap-hooks,

passed off in a clamorous peal that seemed to wake an echo in every



“It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding-place among
from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. He was shivering with a
      scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them, and told
      a gentleman at my brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with her,

society was enchanting to her.
card-party. Only for that....”
“Give me your confidence, Jane,” he said: “relieve your mind of any

believe, never left it till within six months ago. When she first came
“He was conveyed home, and the anguish that was visible in my
in lamentation before untimely rains and tempests, which came as the
being away so long.”

      went by without a solitary walk, in which she might indulge in
      on _such_ a motive! I think it would not be very likely to
Wiltshire, and sing it you shall!” roared Henchard. “Not a single one
quite easy in her mind: Mr. John’s conduct does not please her—he
with a safe conscience; it were well if everybody did the same.”

      The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now
wor gentry i’ th’ owd days o’ th’ Henrys, as onybody might see by
disturbed to find myself at check. Had he not been dead I would have
Of course this was a bad thing for the Scarecrow.
now, yet, if forced to be his wife, I can imagine the possibility of
at a distance of fifty miles, he was virtually nearer to her whose
in a great Catholic wine-merchant’s office and publicity would mean for
“Why?” said Elizabeth, with a start.
      see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed
the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate
There was so much to read, for one thing, and so much fine health to
There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the
marry.”
 CONTENTS
a strange pass: I have heavy troubles. What is to be done? How is the
flew at my throat this morning, hanging its black and scarlet visage
      and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
      you will be as welcome as either of them.”
“I’m a friend of his.” Tom turned his head but kept his hands firm on
pavement of a huge churchyard surrounding the grim, soot-black old
      A short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again.


He played with the idea and grew wilful; tossed it into the air and
would be the best ally I could call in for the furtherance of that
“No, indeed! I remember now seeing the letter E. comprised in your

its tresses; it became all green, all flowery; its great elm, ash, and
Henchard’s visits here grew so frequent and so regular that it soon
“Perhaps you’re right,” said Mr Kernan, relenting.
cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure
“That Tartuffe has emigrated to England and opened a shop.”
“Ah! ... he was a splendid man,” said Mr M’Coy.

Casterbridge. It is a long, long way from here, and it was many years
the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate
and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha,
by which I have not been wounded.”
Great Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes. So that some say he


promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and that
mask of goodness. For curiosity’s sake he had tried the denial of self.
in another strain. Don’t address me as if I were a beauty; I am your

remember—you have said that.”
dismay. “The house must have fallen on her. Whatever shall we do?”
faces, Mr Kernan began to feel more at home. His hat, which had been
      question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more
      what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching
was not in the habit of cherishing the remembrance of vexation; that he

      piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no
      Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now. But in


“But, Jane, I summon you as my wife: it is you only I intend to marry.”
court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were
air and carriage, and he will have, at least, as clearly as words can

dessert-service covering a long table; a band of ladies stood in the

But the Monkey King shook his head.
my ’vation ’tis!”
“He is a clergyman, and is said to do a great deal of good.”


      treasure.’ Are any of your younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?”

her was purely an accident. Do you see, Michael, partly why I have done
threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had
 
neither: and he’s done right, for aught I know. I wish you joy, Miss!”
answered my advertisement, but a stranger!”
Behind the bench was a little promenade under the wall where people

with that sailor who bought her, and little Elizabeth-Jane. We walked
      him. He had been some days in town, before he was able to
One evening I went into the back drawing-room in which the priest had

for an instant: as it passed away she turned and left the room, and so

Here the man looked around with gloomy curiosity. The freshness of the
“She really ought to get away from him,” resumed Catherine to me.

      of masters.”
fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact. Believe me,
“But what, then,” said he, “do you expect me to do for you?”
      “but I wish he had danced with Eliza.”
yourself to-night.”
only instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists. I


      “Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do


      is.”
      we came away. But, however, he did not. Perhaps he thought her

allowed to come again. He entered the market-house, and she could see

wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic
savage—quite savage on his disappointment: he never was a wild man, but
      “I do not know. I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a
too late to make reparation for that. She could still be his wife. His
      Jane’s happiness, and his own, would be speedily secured. Though
that was paved with yellow brick.
“Oh, your Majesty, we thought you would be killed! How did you manage
as she saw him she uttered a little cry, almost of terror.
“I saw it all, Mr. Henchard,” she cried; “and your man was most in the
not make a beggar in your sense of the word.”
felt that you admired me too much. That is not even a compliment.”

library, so it was a good place to work. After that, if the night was

when the deluge was gone by.
memory of the past and the anticipation of the future. I was formed

the villages for their weekly shopping, and instead of a rattle of
populace still retained the primitive habit of helping one another in
one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one.”
      being a wet night, made her feel that the commonest, dullest,
there came a day when I forgot to do this, and, being caught in a
“St John was only twenty-nine, sir.”
“Burns” (such it seems was her name: the girls here were all called by
Brocklehurst. “Humility is a Christian grace, and one peculiarly
adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of
from him.
reflection was to be allowed now: not one glance was to be cast back;
“Have you got your stables here?” asked Gatsby with an effort.
ensuing year.
scrutiny of the road he revealed his face. Henchard lived a lifetime
of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot describe the

with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds.
entered, she rose, advanced to meet them, made a stately reverence, and
sensations. It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left
my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was



“Then she ought to look more cheerful. Come here, Miss Jane: your name
The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane and the lady


He turned to go away. Then something seemed to occur which his
accustomed to do: you may send for me in the evening, when you feel
      recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart
saying to me when we came out——”
shade afforded inadequate illustration. Presently he began to walk back
be gathered, replaced the brown frock she had previously worn; a wreath
more. Henchard was anxious to wash his hands of the game.
boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me. Sometimes I
to dinner. Suddenly I wasn’t thinking of Daisy and Gatsby any more,
called lonely villages were teeming by comparison—there lived a man of


      the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.


I taste food; and it was when brought by hunger, exhaustion, and
      without saying a word; and his daughter, frightened almost out of
odour of perfumes saluted his nose: evidently Miss Delacour had come

worldly reason on his why it should be postponed, since she had

extremity of the gallery, conversing in a key of sweet subdued
“You may look at it,” replied the girl, offering me the book.
      that Mr. Wickham’s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are
it had begun, his career as Trimalchio was over. Only gradually did I
“Go you to the church: see if Mr. Wood (the clergyman) and the clerk
      “A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish
A singular notion dawned upon me. I doubted not—never doubted—that if
not tear my thoughts from my employment, loathsome in itself, but which
to that sunlit scene of grove, pasture, and green hill, of which the

and, taking the paper from his pocket, read the paragraph again by the
his mistress once before the destined ceremony; but she was bathed in
regret, like children leaving a pleasant street at dusk.
be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would
left. He gave me an aluminium putter that I use today.”
summoned music to his aid his existence might even now have been borne;
Chapter 32
been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to
      from the world, in some distant farmhouse. But there was much to
centres of novelty and the remote Wessex boroughs. He had chosen the

BY
“What nonsense people talk about happy marriages!” exclaimed Lord
that the clangour arose from the town band, engaged in an attempt to

      acquaintance.”
from the hills and wandering round the silent house, as though it

modernized fairy tale, in which the wonderment and joy are retained and

the moor, approached the border of the aforesaid brook, and whistled
inquiries beforehand, for on drawing near Farfrae’s residence it was
      friend. He bore it with noble indifference, and she would have
“Here I am as right as the mail, Aunt Kate! Go on up. I’ll follow,”
more potent is it than force! I could resist St. John’s wrath: I grew
made the effort, for it wrenched his sprain.
      that he never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear

      excellence than she had reached. Elizabeth, easy and unaffected,
of stone, was further out on the highway—in fact, fairly in the
sorting of currants, grating of spices, compounding of Christmas cakes,

The proceedings had been brief—too brief—to Lucetta whom an

justified in desiring the death of my adversary. During these last days I
seemed doing a wrong.
and sweets were now passed about the table and Aunt Julia invited all
Now, uttered before a stranger, the accusation cut me to the heart; I


glow angrily in his veins.
I must keep to my post, however. I must watch this ghastly
of the Great Oz.
for he was big and heavy; but the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood

hands racing along the keyboard or lifted from it at the pauses like
“Yes, so, sir,” I rejoined: “and yet not so; for you are a married

      though not enough to be able to speak any more. Her brother,
umbrella from his hands he began to pull so incessantly at his sparse

daughters off their hands.

say, “just because I’m stronger and more of a man than you are.” We
“Who have you been with, Jane?”
      him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like
no business of mine. If he is dead, I don’t want to think about him.
“The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that be? who could attempt
sat looking at the white bed and overshadowed walls—occasionally also
volcanic-looking hills, and had suddenly felt the ground quiver and

placed in water, and then upon the fire. She afterwards continued her
words it spoke:

whispered: “Oh, God!” in a miserable way.

          married!”
I should not have left him thus, he said, without any means of making

We were not allowed to converse for any length of time, for the
life, whom, till this hour, I had loved barrenly, I could now benefit.
      “Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not
“Consistency, madam, is the first of Christian duties; and it has been


by sounds of an unaccustomed kind from the town quarter. They were a

felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group. It would
         And scatter flowers on the dust I love._
“What’s the woman like? Just say, and I can tell in a moment if ’tis
divisions and feuds. But one kind of appointment—in itself the most
a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard.
she’d come. She’s from Connacht, isn’t she?”
mug to their neighbours. The singer himself grew emotional, till she
“Well, for once it may pass; but please not to let the circumstance
Elizabeth-Jane.”
a great spider, with a body as big as an elephant and legs as long as a
      she said:
from his boots.
yielding their evening sacrifice of incense: this new scent is neither
where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence,
reconciliation; and though, more than once, my fast falling tears
whose name, if I ever knew it, I have forgotten.
Something of vengeance I had tasted for the first time; as aromatic
You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed
shouldn’t see my own work, especially as I am going to exhibit it in

                                  V
      receive from me a letter of thanks for this, and for every other
“With pleasure,” I replied; and I felt a thrill of artist-delight at
returned with Volume One of the Stoddard Lectures.
which I gave, so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations
rain. The last mile I performed on foot, having dismissed the chaise
weeping too. Whenever there was a pause in the song she filled it with
When he saw us Tom jumped up and took half a dozen steps in our

mystery and the beauty in the world.
black iron branches to and fro. He shivered and went back, closing the
narrow, low, and dim, with only one little window at the far end, and



every enjoyment I was, of course, excluded: my share of the gaiety
      “You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my

voice. “It wouldn’t be true.”

Latin her father had taught her, and taking a book from a shelf, bade
pay of the Castle.”



her whom he loved. This idea was torture to him. He quickly arranged
      week; and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being
of “Henchard,” “Everdene,” “Shiner,” “Darton,” and so on, was added one
all round there, and then go on to the lochs, and all the Highland
      observation of the day altogether, she believed Lady Catherine to
which weren’t even faintly true. Moreover he told it to me at a time

“‘Oh,’ returned the fairy, ‘that does not signify! Here is a talisman
shed it over me now.
around as we please. But whenever any of us are taken away our joints
condition. I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely

This Work
“If he’d of lived, he’d of been a great man. A man like James J.
“I was waiting to see....”
But, alas! for Henchard; he had lost his good name. They would not
I am, Madam, &c., &c.,
“Yes,” said the good lady, who now knew what ground we were upon, “and
      lively imagination soon settled it all.
“Anyway, it’s better than nothing,” said Mr O’Connor.

“And if I let a gust of wind or a sprinkling of rain turn me aside from
“One word,” he was saying, as the crackling of paper denoted that
so I stood up.
and with a series of rapid, deft movements stood up into the room.
How people feel when they are returning home from an absence, long or
“But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I
have grown to be lightly regarded as the rather tall wild oat, but
      and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. In Alphonso’s


and then learnt particulars of what had occurred, together with the
I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own
with such language!—no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary
coincided with the discussion on corn and bread, in which event this
“That cannot be done,” he said. “We belong to this country alone, and
“My daughter, flee temptation.”

she grew to talk of “greggles” as “wild hyacinths”; that when she had
forty; his complexion was singularly sallow: otherwise he was a
wherever people played polo and were rich together. This was a
think, a dozen at least in our day; half of them detestable and the

“That will do;—now wet the lip of the phial.”
      features, noble mien, and the report which was in general
      afterwards added:


prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of
not answer the ceaseless inward question—_why_ I thus suffered; now, at
any brutality she’s going to turn the light out and on again.”

      man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.”

daughter’s head. “Happy!” she echoed, “I am only happy, Sibyl, when I
“Yes—yes; but where is Mr. Briggs? He perhaps knows more of Mr.

some explanation necessary before we meet.
As quick as lightning the man’s head shot forward and his neck
breast was swinging loose like a flap, and there was no need to listen
without smiling, without seeming to recognise in me a human being, he


“I hardly see that it would be proper, Mr. Henchard,” said he. “The
Mastering some hesitation, he answered, “Miss Oliver, I presume.”
night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air. But I did not
“No. There is this difference between me and deistic philosophers: I
pathways by which spectators had ascended to their seats were pathways


to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. When he
      “Nor I, I am sure,” said Miss Bingley.
get in the family way. But she’s up to the dodge.”
towards me—was unchanged and unchangeable. I knew by her stony

The granary was just within the farm-yard, and stood on stone staddles,


and directed before the bell rang to rouse the school; it ran thus:—

aspire to the standard he uplifted. The thing was as impossible as to

I’d never seen him since then. I don’t know how he knew about the
current whenever a stranger approached, as if some strange fish

Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain. His
loud as they will; she will never hear it any more.”

such. His deportment had now for some weeks been more uniform towards
prefer the claim of old acquaintance, and the right too of custom; for
“I don’t want to hear it!” roared Henchard. “To-morrow the waggons must
      the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elizabeth found
Sam!”
      “Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know. Do not
      Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have
not like to say anything. He had been paid his money and wished to be
presence by saying, “A bull passing down street from the sale.”

      The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent
“Take that thing off the face. I wish to see it,” he said, clutching at
weather-cocks of Casterbridge creaked and set their faces in another


      not. There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of
for clearness and precision; add to this a facility of expression and a
little French story which Madame Pierrot had that day shown me; nor was
the steely light of dawn. Lucifer was fading into day across Durnover
      directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the
“Four guineas!” cried the auctioneer.
The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
I let down the window and looked out; Millcote was behind us; judging
pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she
any more than I am handsome, yet a puzzled air becomes you; besides, it
my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and
      countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner!”
      listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any
as, indeed, was not unnatural. But she seemed so transubstantiated by
“Adèle may accompany us, may she not, sir?”
“I don’t want you to meet him.”
“She’s lovely,” said Daisy.
“No, of course not,” cried Dorian.
used to teach me to dance and sing, and to say verses. A great many

was going to do and thought how much better it was to be independent
mademoiselle?”
calling. Would you think me a married man?”

“You think I’m pretty dumb, don’t you?” he suggested. “Perhaps I am,

Dorian had whispered to her. Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped
      that to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
      He readily agreed to it.

then they came back to Chicago to settle down. Daisy was popular in
cells, as it appeared to me—to that sky expanded before me,—a blue sea
      Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, “Mr. Wickham is
said the man in the tent. “Why shouldn’t they put ’em up and sell ’em
short, she believed his story to be true, she became greatly agitated,
“Now,” said he, “that little space was given to delirium and delusion.

      “The first wish of my heart,” said she to herself, “is never more

      “I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age.”
might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled
      get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that
artificiality those renunciations that men have unwisely called virtue,
      early enough for expectation.”
him? ’Twas as much my fault as his, poor fellow!”
relations,—or two, if you don’t choose to be counted,—are born into my

Without further reflection the fallen merchant, bent on some wild
daughter, the golden girl …
shorn lambs, and the man do seem to have plenty of money, which is what
everything, and turning to the dignified little Mouse, he said:
The concerts were to be on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
birthday, as he often remembered afterwards.
      for me! The quiet, the retirement of such a life would have
roof with her; for her glance, now more than ever, when turned on me,
“There! you will find it scarcely more legible than a crumpled,
forth by the said Jack.
half-a-dozen helpers, and go in a body to Mixen Lane, and into Peter’s
“Certainly,” answered the Scarecrow. “How do you do?”
she was it was difficult to conjecture. They said Mr. Edward had
“A year ago I was myself intensely miserable, because I thought I had


The Lion was angry at this speech, but could say nothing in reply, and
      the rest of the world; to _wish_ at least to think meanly of
“That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in
of his surtout, muttered something to his family, who rose, bowed to
A moment later she rushed out into the dusk, waving her hands and
A snug small room; a round table by a cheerful fire; an arm-chair

To this bridge came Henchard, as other unfortunates had come before


she was imploring and anxious: “Come, come, it is getting dark, and


“No,” he said coolly: “when you have indicated to us the residence of
“You might say all that to almost any one who you knew lived as a
“I am.”
oblivion! Lastly, I saw Mr. Mason was submissive to Mr. Rochester; that


improvements which he had made in it. I asked him why he had brought it
are now.”
      the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most
“Yes,” said Henchard shortly, though little dreaming of Jopp’s
      comes to us to-day. I shall write again as soon as anything more
      were but such another man for you!”
me.... I’ll say a _Hail Mary_....”
Birrell, who had made the post-mortem examination of the deceased.
      decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt. But,


      man whom he so justly scorned.


for what I yet know, you may be no better than the rest; you may have
Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away. He could not help liking

a reserve of harmony to fall back upon in case of need.

Francis Osborne, in his Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and

Presently Tom lifted his head with a jerk and, after staring around
 XXIX
“Come!”
Lord Henry elevated his eyebrows and looked at him in amazement through
none to bestow. There is something terribly appalling in our
“And dostn’t mind how mother would sing, Christopher?” continued Mrs.
      after sitting so long in one attitude.”


      “You are severe on us.”

until at last the Pope himself stood up and declared infallibility a
The laugh was repeated in its low, syllabic tone, and terminated in an
counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public
“I should change the light,” he said after a moment. “I’d like to
him. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that he

Grace curtseyed silently and went in.

himself. Mr. Rochester turned and glared at him. His eye, as I have
“Five guineas,” said the auctioneer, “or she’ll be withdrawn. Do
inference, that if I were so far to forget myself and all the teaching

curse.

the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and
“That is offering a premium on incapacity: I shall now endeavour to
blood flowed in his veins. Here was Philip Herbert, described by
settled her mind, and formed her resolution. Her own fortune she had
Just as Tom and Myrtle (after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and I called

prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously.”
      back again! though I thought it would be very good fun if I was.”
      designing friends, and led him to sacrifice of his own happiness
something for me first. Help me and I will help you.”


“What is it?” said the old man.
I looked at this fair creature: I admired her with my whole heart.
“We be truly sorry to hear it,” said Solomon Longways. “We can ill
      instrument is a capital one, probably superior to——You shall try
Rochester.


standard?”
you from the snare into which you had fallen, but he implored Mr. Mason
“They are the Kalidahs!” said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.
sink to rest. Then the appearance of death was distant, although the
till the day she had appointed; this plan of returning them by hand
put in all the papers; I myself have received a letter from one Mr.
indian blue. Suddenly, with a strained sound, Daisy bent her head into
“I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to
there was due to the iron hand of necessity, and to that alone.
      style of his address, she was still full of indignation; but when
“What do they mean by a ‘skimmity-ride’?” he asked.
disgrace me to the dust!”
In addition to these fixed obstacles which spoke so cheerfully of
grey suit approaching. He came up the hill, smiling, and clambered up
Yet having decided to break away from Henchard one might have supposed

towards Stephen’s Green.
“What do I want? A new place, in a new house, amongst new faces, under
by the name of “Miss Eyre.” Eliza’s greeting was delivered in a short,
pretext to take up a permanent residence with her?”
Did through each vein, in quickened start,
      all.”
do, Adèle? Cudgel your brains for an expedient. How would a white or a

      Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly
      offenses might have been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt
had come to meet him here in this compromising way without perceiving
to his utterance a broadening of the cheeks, a crevicing of the eyes, a
      But Elizabeth had now recollected herself, and making a strong
that they were conspiring together.
      “Oh, yes. Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy. Say
away the old one. Uncle Henry was milking the cows in the barnyard, and
So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
the two images in which he now conceived her, he realised that she was
“Yes,” he replied, “absolutely sans mademoiselle; for I am to take
had said and done. He was the more disturbed when he found that this
the owner of three pawnbroker’s shops, and Dan Hogan’s nephew, who was
      was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and,
I could not collect the courage to recommence my work. I feared the
I felt the truth of these words; and I drew from them the certain
attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips. The monster
her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace
Nebuchadnezzar in the fields about you, that is certain: your hair
embroideries, wrought by fingers that for two generations had been
understand him, but smiled. He assisted her to dismount, and
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they


of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but
a committee. Mr. Brocklehurst, who, from his wealth and family
philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate
respected.

“I can’t tell you, Harry,” he answered sadly. “And I dare say it is
tell my tale plainly, and make my proposals openly: and it appeared to
hand: approaching one of the small, black doors, he put it in the lock;
the High Street, where there were timber houses with overhanging
his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness. I
Yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful thing in. It had perhaps
James Vane stood on the pavement in horror. He was trembling from head
crystal conscience the faintest stain of crime. Especially I felt this
double, was floating as if dead in Ten Hatches Hole.
      would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female
the table covered Lily’s removal of the plates. The subject of talk was
give satisfactory references as to character and competency, a
      perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other
      away.
called as much on Farfrae’s account as on Lucetta’s, and on
down to Farfrae’s yard and asked to be taken on as a journeyman
there.
narrow-lived ones around her the secret (as she had once learnt it) of
themselves, fitted themselves, shot into order: the chain that had been
wheeled the table near it: I let down the curtain, and had the candles
good job? Would he never have a home of his own? He thought how


      never see either one or the other again!”
the world Basil Hallward’s masterpiece.

age that was at once sordid and sensual.


it had been her own! I could not consent to the death of any human
The Munchkins and the Witch first looked at one another, and then at
very wild: these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways,
beyond what childhood could give. As this horse approached, and as I
Perhaps she would not hear at once: she would be undressing. Then
      endeavouring to shake off her gravity. “I am trying to make it


floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my
“And you,” I interrupted, “cannot at all imagine the craving I have for

house. Corley remained standing at the edge of the path, a little
promise wrung from her the night before. At bottom, then, Henchard was
      Charlotte and her sister, just returned from her walk. The
      and as they entered the house he earnestly entreated her to name
started at first, and then I approached him.
“My—why—’tis dressed just as _she_ was dressed when she sat in the
biscuit-barrel. She entered heart and soul into the details of the
“We can try,” answered the Lion.
“Don’t talk like that about any one you love, Dorian. Love is a more
      likely to know in what part of town he has now concealed himself.
done with ... nearly. He still bought a copy of _Reynolds’s Newspaper_
under the tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent and venerable old
      received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way. By


head perched sideways to hear her better, was still applauding when
      time or other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were
cleanly, white-aproned, and chinking with money—now tentless, dirty,
of her acquittal.”
hand, my heart, and a share of all my possessions.”
stood upon his head.
fresh well of emotion in his heart: my sole present aim was to cheer

passing a car coming the other way. It all happened in a minute, but
and sank crimson and clear behind them. I then turned eastward.

Mr. Henchard,” whispered Mrs. Newson who, since her entry into

“I don’t know how we could manage without him,” answered the elder
rattle of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted Georgian urn.


      “You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first


the brains you so greatly desire.”
will be here directly.”
      are strangely misrepresented.”
I understood her very well, for I had been accustomed to the fluent


I walked about the chamber most of the time. I imagined myself only to
company of such a graceful, refined-looking girl. He was like a common

come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead.
shorter stood on tiptoe. It was said that the Royal _cortège_
I was not too late: as you, doubtless, must be also. Were I not morally
“And then,” he pursued, “I am cold: no fervour infects me.”
he at last said—
I went out to the country alone. I had a dog—at least I had him for a

“Ada! Ada!”
“O, Mr D’Arcy,” cried Mary Jane, “it’s downright mean of you to break
      happiness. She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets
domesticated body of salt water in the Western hemisphere, the great
dead. I was promoted to be a major, and every Allied government gave
“Is the fire hot, sir?”
sun. Sitting on Tom’s lap Mrs. Wilson called up several people on the
window-curtain. You pay her, of course; I should think it quite as

room, and Bessie, as she moved hither and thither, putting away toys
passion_.” This passion Céline had professed to return with even

and walked down the middle of the bazaar. I allowed the two pennies to
contract was for four concerts.”
some falls by the wayside and some among thorns, and all that. Each
Lion said:
      certain evils of such a choice. I described, and enforced them
that his great kindness to me was balanced by unjust severity to many
      you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or

Ignatius Gallaher drank off his whisky and shook his head.
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and
“How wonderful, Basil!”
quite sequestrated; but I found no pleasure in the silent trees, the
      “Pray tell your sister that I long to see her.”
“Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like
“I am delighted,” he answered, smiling. Then he added, somewhat
      again!”
evening is drawing on, mother,” she said. “What do you propose to do?”
      received a letter from him; it told them that, on his arrival, he
By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should guess that
machinery of human nerves strove to answer the bounding courses of the
always had an edge on her, especially whenever there were people
      things enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went
      custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and

well-being. This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to
castle of the Wicked Witch and the Emerald City. When the four
But was it all irretrievable? Was there no hope for him?

there, they say.”
      instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at
their melting, the almost impassable roads, prevented our stirring
manly, open-hearted. She was to go away with him by the night-boat to

them, had a habit of glancing upwards when she spoke with anyone, which
difficult questions to me, asking me what one should do in certain
subject that one would have to talk seriously about it. But I certainly
been silent all through the supper, said that her son was going down to
      “Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some

passed his aunt’s some distance, and, smiling to himself, turned back.
      is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own
have hers laced also, and she agreed to a milder allowance after some

lantern from her went out at the back door and down the garden-path,
and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind.

      attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by
happiness, with simple truth—Do you not love another?
and leave her there.”
have made it, something seems to have gone out of me. Perhaps one


“Whose property is it?”
together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me. I am what I
But when St. John had mused a few moments he recommenced as
“She has screamed out on purpose,” declared Abbot, in some disgust.
of the rock, gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene. The sea,
“I am not here to argue. Wait till you cool doon, wait till you cool;
own; then, folding his arms, which he had half extended, on his chest,
after. At the front door of the hall we found the carriage.
         O, Erin, mourn with grief and woe
When the Scotch House closed they went round to Mulligan’s. They went
“I hope he will fall into proper hands,” continued the old man. “He

she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep.


disappointment and sorrow of no interest to you?”
Lenehan said no more. He did not wish to ruffle his friend’s temper, to
Henchard’s face and eyes seemed to die. The other did not notice it. “I
As to Mr. St John, the intimacy which had arisen so naturally and

walking along some dark road; he heard Corley’s voice in deep energetic
housemaid’s work?” I answered by inviting him to accompany me on a
“I am very glad you didn’t, Harry.”
ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a detestable
      before we left Bakewell, we understood that you were not
send for me punctually the moment the clock struck seven; though when I
of exotics bloomed on all sides.
      opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate footing; her
      the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of
“I don’t know: I asked Aunt Reed once, and she said possibly I might
“I’ll meet you by the newsstand on the lower level.”

darkness. He stretched his right hand (the left arm, the mutilated one,
looked upon it as the ravings of insanity. Besides, the strange nature

      answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been

Mr. Gray at present. I have only just met him.”
as a natural thing. If any word at all were uttered by the little
“Oh! I will give my heart to God,” I said. “_You_ do not want it.”
had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
on my lone hearth? I stretched my hand to take a glass of water from a
He wouldn’t consider it. He couldn’t possibly leave Daisy until he
suffered when I sought all over the house, and could find you nowhere,
my head. “You _shall_,” repeated Mary, in the tone of undemonstrative


feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can’t help it. Of
“Very well,” I said shortly; “under the circumstances, quite as well as
alive. Why—there’s things between Daisy and me that you’ll never know,
month, but at the last minute the firm ordered him to Washington, and
writing, and scarcely utter a word either to me or her sister.
fellow-creatures to say that they ought to confine themselves to making
pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in America, after
“Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray.”
renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude. She
in London.”

“What character did I act? My own?”
      spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter
      pitiable; but it will have no effect on _me_.”
had arranged some Hallow Eve games and soon everything was merry again.
the dummy who had charge of the irons if it wasn’t for Maria. Everyone
and Colonel Dent is a fine soldierly man. Mr. Eshton, the magistrate of
I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not in deed,


      she felt that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself
The din was on the causeway: a horse was coming; the windings of the
room for her. He was a stout gentleman and he wore a brown hard hat; he
wretchedness? You can blast my other passions, but revenge
Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated. For a moment
“No, thank you, Bessie.”
      everything in his favour, should think highly of himself. If I
any other country. When you read their writings, life appears to

“And weep over a faithless Florizel,” said Lord Henry, laughing, as he
convey. Precisely at that point it vanished—and I was looking at an
believe I can make a balloon.”
stranger’s hand will write to me next, to say that the good and
was the most scandalous exhibition he had ever witnessed. Miss Kathleen
appropriate possessor of the new machine seemed to be Lucetta, because

found, to my disappointment, that he had little to say. So my first
You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not

with moonrise.”
not tell why) and at times a flood from my heart seemed to pour itself
buttons of which reflected the candlelight, was turned up about his
      estates.”
Their visit was not so still as Miss Ingram’s had been: we heard
      more, apologising for his intrusion, without any previous


like an ecstatic patron of recurrent light, and repeated the news to
Startled at being thus addressed, I did not immediately reply: after a
and good-naturedly tolerated by her husband. It was terrible to his

      mean time, she went after dinner to show her ring, and boast of

blinding falls; by twilight the valley was drifted up and almost
was hard to believe that life with her would have been productive of

bank was a wall more or less discontinuous, and within the wall were

      passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of
The Scotchman, as he seemed to be, thanked him, and strolled on in the
comfort mine; for those were your accents—as certain as I live—they

“Oh! I am sorry I didn’t see him. Did he leave any message?”
“Now,” said the woman, breaking the silence, so that her low dry voice

this suggestion on the character of my beloved; indeed, when you are
unresisting individual—whom his word now sufficed to control like a
      housekeeper added, “I have never known a cross word from him in
“Her neck is uncovered, and her hair in bands, and her back-comb in

      usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he
ran eagerly across the road. Anxiety and his swift run made him pant.
      good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.”
“No, sir. Never saw him before. Seems like a sailor, sir.”
mishap, and giving a loud roar that echoed like thunder, he dashed up
      Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lydia’s being
panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the glimmer of the
vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and

      could hardly contain herself. As soon as Jane had read Mr.

opportunity, they would coax or menace the little ones out of their

“It was my _début_ in life,” she sighed.
did you find in the veil besides its embroidery? Did you find poison,
than to my natural bent, I am a trite commonplace sinner, hackneyed in

      “If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of
delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate

know what they are, I suppose?”
      dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if
never-dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or
and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same
King of the Forest?” inquired the Lion.
felt how useless it was to struggle against fortune, this being the
“Why did you come here to find me, then?”
woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes. He is eloquent
His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the garage.
the point. Last January, rid of all mistresses—in a harsh, bitter frame
when she should learn he was not related to her other than as a
enlightened her. As the Mayor’s stepdaughter, she learnt, she had not
arms. To save money they kept no servant but Annie’s young sister

bowed in the ascent, her frail shoulders curved as with a burden, her
ask her to ascertain whether Mrs. Reed was disposed to receive me or

his last; here he lay in state; hence his coffin was borne by the
could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or
no one knew who he was. He had often told the girl whom he had lured to
“She says she does want him.”
My love has sworn, with sealing kiss,


which everybody must be acquainted by instinct.

      am missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess
“It’s called _The Lass of Aughrim_,” said Mr D’Arcy, “but I couldn’t
Lucetta’s countenance lost its sparkle. “He turned out to be a man I

sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to
      public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with

one day, and the illness which is removing me is not painful; it is
need fear to offend by living with me?”
me, and trusted that she would not leave me.”
      time, had it not been for her own perverseness. He made her an
to be very beautiful by people who ought to know.”
      not tired, and they stood together on the lawn. At such a time
I really did not expect any Grace to answer; for the laugh was as
“They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany, where I
A splendid Midsummer shone over England: skies so pure, suns so radiant
nothing was so merry or so musical as my own rejoicing heart.
had brought her home as a present one Saturday. It had cost him ten and
even every pocket-picking—leastwise large ones—that ’t has been my lot



and if either o’ ye went there, ye could tell what they said, I guess?”
is this. Not one of them, not the biggest drunkard, not the most ...
Henchard went down Corn Street till he came to Farfrae’s house, where
“Why?”
were behind once more, by God, he would come and drag him out o’ bed.
that he had left a heap of useless papers in his former dining-room
where an intellectual expression begins. Intellect is in itself a mode
I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various
this world: my mission is to mortify in these girls the lusts of the
but he himself, I doubted not, would hurry me from Thornfield. Real
      book, and cast her eyes round the room in quest for some
“You spoke of a retirement, sir; and retirement and solitude are dull:
      really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is
    to endeavour to disperse the shade which my _étourderie_ flung over
Daisy’s dock. He had come a long way to this blue lawn, and his dream
dreadful end? What about Lord Kent’s only son and his career? I met his
as the path was narrow, I sat still to let it go by. In those days I
      “Oh! she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there
I looked with timorous joy towards a stately house: I saw a blackened

If he wedded Messalina, he would be none the less interesting. You know
      It was not till the afternoon, when he had joined them at tea,
have been a good speech. Farley clapped him on the back and laughed
He scrutinised the reverse of these living medals some five minutes,
      obliging her in turn, by sitting down to whist.
      be talked of in marrying her; and the good-natured wishes for her
stopped. “Mr. Henchard?” came from it in the voice of Farfrae. Henchard
      of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up as the
on whether your relations notice you or not. There was something I
gaze it was. She answered it with a second laugh, and laughter well
I had put on some clothes, though horror shook all my limbs; I issued

cover directed to the editor of the _Herald_; you must put it, the
religion—these are the two things that govern us. And yet—”
effect, though difficult, would not be impossible, I informed her I
come singly,” and to add to their distresses the vexing one of the slip


town,” said Coney; “but daze me if I ever see a man wait so long before
but I am obliged to brew for my work-people.”
voice. “I ought to have been more careful.”
never seen a girl so mad about her husband. If he left the room for a
“I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night, old sport.”
wish is to become really a man of science and not merely a petty

of reality.
      observation.
      importance to mention.”
spoke of the rain in a worried, uncertain way. The minister glanced
      partial, prejudiced, absurd.
husband seemed, wisely or not, the best initiatory step. He had

      the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished in their
      “How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I
      daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her
and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him.
      woman.”
ear by those grinning lips. The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred
In spite of this praiseworthy course the Scotchman’s trade increased.

“Sha, ’s nothing,” said the injured man, trying to stand up.
remotely brought about by the man whom he had so fiercely assailed. But
cordial, and that’s the truth on’t.”
in half an hour.”
      so intimate together. After lamenting it, however, at some
on. When I came back from the East last autumn I felt that I wanted
“A blush is very becoming, Duchess,” remarked Lord Henry.
life as in their present position, partly from the natural elation she
faculties. Ere long, I became aware that some one was handling me;
Adèle heard him, and asked if she was to go to school “sans
As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my host, but the two or

from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come. Through
London where Gallaher lived. He was called Little Chandler because,
Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks. He was terribly excited.

      home with her, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for
buried quietly and quickly, the nature of the malady forbidding delay.
      after a moment’s deliberation:
jumping over sundials and brick walks and burning gardens—finally when

nearly extinct, section of village society called “liviers,” or
“Yes; and to the beautiful Miss Ingram.”
brother a few years since.”
youth, one has merely to repeat one’s follies.”
of bursting wheat-sacks could be seen standing inside, with the air of


was a poor parish ’prentice, that began life wi’ no more belonging to
      were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other.

      This was spoken jestingly; but it appeared to her so just a
alluded to her favourite’s movements, the girl would implore her by a
IV.
never remembered to have seen. For a handsome and not an
And where, meantime, was Helen Burns? Why did I not spend these sweet


      spend the evening at Rosings. I rather expected, from my
with him—Miss Ingram were the life and soul of the party. If he was
      Darcy, without calling her attention. This observation would not
hopeful mood than she had enjoyed since her marriage. The day had been
      of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this

“Shall we all go in my car?” suggested Gatsby. He felt the hot, green
      their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it
      character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.”
“Humph! The wickedness has not been taken out of you, wherever you have
      “Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your
merchant’s house. The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction;
“Can’t repeat the past?” he cried incredulously. “Why of course you

history, if known, would make a delightful romance.
Prince Charming?”
sound of her voice, though with Elizabeth-Jane he was quite at his
suppose, was some wretched fellow who writes these things for a drink.
He felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would sicken
      Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:
teeth that he obviously still could boast of.
“You have passed a strange night, Jane.”
within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more
The next morning after breakfast I went down to look at the little
There was a great deal of confusion and laughter and noise, the noise
cousin. “You had better take care. He is very fascinating.”
which were of bluish slate-colour, relieved his unhealthy pallor and
Daisy around a chain of connecting verandas to the porch in front. In
senseless floor has received them, or your drenched handkerchief. But I
      “My dearest sister, now _be_ serious. I want to talk very
want to, you know.”
“Aire? Bah! I cannot say it. Well, our ship stopped in the morning,
reached me weakened and indistinct and, leaning my forehead against the
careful about women. He would never so much as look at a friend’s
from that? He would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him. He had not
“Well, sir!” she simpered. And then, bursting into naturalness, and
money I have will just keep body and soul together for a few weeks, and
gone there, there have been either so many people that I have not been
never, never again to rise.”
little he knew of the true reason! And how strange it was that, instead
      as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no

on the confines of Switzerland, when the sun had recovered its warmth
      They then went away.

therefore if it is he.” In a few seconds surely enough Donald walked
“I wonder,” he asked himself with eerie misgiving; “I wonder if it can
soul’s cell and loosed its bands—it had wakened it out of its sleep,

of the events of life as they occurred. The vicious cruelty that marred
know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I
“I am not your dear; I cannot lie down: send me to school soon, Mrs.
to men the very gold of their lives.”
      the little copse.”
      “He did not talk to me of his own arts,” said Fitzwilliam,
Elizabeth-Jane’s bonnet and shawl were pitchforked on in a moment, and
I could not refuse.
quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing. I am sure I don’t know
“O, you needn’t tell me that, Mr Power. I know you’re a friend of his,
applause was borne in from the invisible supper-table. It sounded so
will be the wisest man in all the Land of Oz.”
“Well, I tried to swing the wheel—” He broke off, and suddenly I
do nothing in Dublin. As he crossed Grattan Bridge he looked down the
      immediately expected in the country.” He acknowledged the truth
intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this



not to make his appearance till evening—when stiffness would have worn
and I didn’t expect it, really. It’s a pity he wouldn’t keep away from

fatuus_,” was my first thought; and I expected it would soon vanish. It

nothing.
He pursued his own thoughts without heeding me.
      expected.
in the whole history of the Church.”
It was no rapid matter to get there at night, not a lamp or glimmer of
floor.
be very willing. My reading of those letters was only a sort of
makes a remark to which you are obliged to reply, you rap out a round
any charge of unnatural dislike, said “Yes.”
played every little counter of gossip, they shook hands with one
knot of flowers, either to inhale their fragrance or to admire the

Her face was inundated with an angry colour and she looked as if she
and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the clouds—they all
Farfrae by estrangement; Elizabeth-Jane by ignorance. It seemed to him

to it. By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she
your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself. I look on the

turned on his heel and left the room. In a few moments he was out of
      nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
purse tightly in her hand as she elbowed her way through the crowds and
and uttered with the demureness of a Quakeress.

even divined their thoughts, and had whispered in the ear of each the
rattling noise as it saved him from conversation. She was looking out
      suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece
Then the valley of ashes opened out on both sides of us, and I had a
him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain. His
A crooked smile, like a Malay crease, writhed across the face of one of
“And did she inform you what I went to do?”
in prospect, more terrible to me than my own death. But you have a husband
him charming. He atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by
making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or
semblance of irregularity had terrors for her which those whose names
more softly, “but think of me sometimes in your future life—you’ll do
“Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing
“It’s a bitch,” said Tom decisively. “Here’s your money. Go and buy
      demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk

evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable
      estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire, and Jane and

      restrain the wild giddiness of his youngest daughters; and her
      employ the power, which her fancy told her she still possessed,
      Lizzy, you can tell us whether it is like or not.”

give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes; my
and Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in

Lacenaire, the cold yellow hand “_du supplice encore mal lavée_,” with
the field but a few hurdles, the tents, and the poles.
past.”

ears while the van paused on the top of Yalbury Hill to have the drag
served often as a pall for the dead. Now it was to hide something that
its latticed casements, its mouldering walls, its avenue of aged
It is said that passion makes one think in a circle. Certainly with
“It is a most romantic explanation,” laughed the hostess. “But her


away and the daughter out giving music lessons Mr Duffy had many


do you talk of it? It used to remind me of those curious lines in some
expensive,—more so; for you have them both to keep in addition.”
 XV
“Yes, sir.”
earnestly, “and what do you think I did?”
hunt them in out of the field with his blackthorn stick; but usually
as if we had never known each other. You need not think that because we

child, were approaching the large village of Weydon-Priors, in Upper
“Because it’s your name. Feeling you’d come I’ve waited for ’ee; and


All the men looked towards Farfrae.
“Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall
I been but just conceiving of starving myself to death? That certainly

      relationship with Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind
had begun to cackle from the outhouses. When within a few yards of
convent cell; and I dwelt on and analysed their separate peculiarities
      their cradles, we planned the union: and now, at the moment when
The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but
“I never tilt against beauty,” he said, with a wave of his hand.
      Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life
      “They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not

“Who was the woman?” he inquired.
little to make you less sad: I thought anger would be better than
I trembled. One subject! What could it be? Could he allude to an object on
the wedding then in course of celebration at the town they were
sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and
children. He would insist on calling me ‘My Lord,’ so I had to assure
nothing: he seemed as if he would defy all things. Without speaking,
“I won’t hear of it,” she cried. “For goodness’ sake go in to your

towards the secrecy of the confessional seemed so grave to me that I
scepticism, and who leaned back jauntily just within the circle of my
      branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of

edge or turn in the incline of Henchard’s fortunes. On that day—almost
feeling of disappointment in the exercise, while the city hung its pale
      wishes for the felicity of her daughter, and impressive in her

Harry. What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could
      his wife should make their appearance at St. James’s. The whole
flowers in this old garden awake and expand, and the birds fetch their
man who called on the evening of the wedding—he was seen wi’ it in his
“Is it snowing again, Mr Conroy?” asked Lily.
      attended himself. To work in this garden was one of his most
      therefore, to be importuned no farther on the subject.”
      his intrusion by letting her know that he had understood all the

what my caprice might be—whether I was going to play the master and be
very rough boy and asked did he get whipped often at school. I was
furlough, village shopkeepers, and the like, having latterly flocked
      any danger of seeing him.

moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could
embraces appropriated?”
second lover?” She let out in jerky phrases a leading word or two of
sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception,
      report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with
now if I were to ask you for a kiss you wouldn’t give it me: you’d say
Scarcely dared I answer her; for I feared the next sentence might be
to allay the pang of famine! Instinctively I turned my face again to
He looked over the fertile country that stretched beneath them, then

Prince Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces. But I am poor
so dread, that I stopped my ears. I said I could not bear such words
she said at last, bringing down her palm upon the sill with a pat:
warm air, a memory of summer, circulated in the streets. The streets,
“& that nobody is wished to see my dead body.
“Not yet,” said Mr O’Connor. “I hope to God he’ll not leave us in the
      Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for
and quenched in infinite wretchedness. Sometimes he commanded his
walls, slid down the green rampart, and stood amongst the stubble. The
A cry of pain broke from the lad’s lips, and he leaped to his feet,
guard’s whistle he set the train in motion and a second or two

of that kind.”
laugh? Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things
“Let us sit down, Dorian,” said the painter, looking troubled. “Let us

minutes. I shall take the candle. Remain where you are till I return;
Kernan tasted tea. He took a mouthful, drew it up, saturated his palate
goodness he didn’t hear me.”
the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I
      probability of their marriage was extremely agreeable to _her_.

up and down the Long Island shore. Just why these inventions were a
had made in the sciences. He soon perceived that I disliked the
tolerable. There would remain nobody for him to be proud of, nobody to
said nothing about her money; but he told me Miss Mason was the boast
      separate Bingley and Jane she had never doubted; but she had
me; but I listen to my duty, and keep steadily in view my first aim—to
your defects, where would you all be? Not one of you would ever be
wrapped in horse-cloths under them, and were silent and still as death,
As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he
one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection. I shall commit my thoughts
hay-trusser. He was engaged at once. This hiring of Henchard was done


while he stood silently gazing at the Ball of Fire it became so
      it had been asked without the least suspicion, she was not
deep voice; with an unflushed cheek, and a coruscating radiance of
on, soared into a philosophy, and philosophy herself became young, and
Just before noon the phone woke me, and I started up with sweat
“Why?” repeated Miss Ivors.
inhabitants of Zipangu place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the
“’Tis a concocted story,” said the clerk. “So hold your tongue!”
of it. Adèle, as you say, must go to school; and you, of course, must
The look was far worse to resist than the frantic strain: only an
opposite the house to which you belonged. A shape thereupon made its
I should be glad if the superintendent and teachers were requested to
to-morrow. I have some work to do.”
burden of wisdom which the ages had bequeathed to him.
      “Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on
      envelope itself was likewise full. Pursuing her way along the
up to the top of the long room she cried out—
      In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed
      his features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though
      down. He then said,
then you will tell us how it all came about.”
what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he
      been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified, and her preference
“I’ve no wish to complain of him.”


tones: “I saw her there last April. I am her brother.”
my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys. It is a delightful idea.”
      me.”
wheels, for the day cheap—he said, at Johnny Rush’s over the way there
seems to be in a bad way. What’s he doing?”


“As a girl I lived about in garrison towns and elsewhere with my
“Is there anything we can do,” it asked, “to repay you for saving the
Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and consternation on
windows were ajar and gleaming white against the fresh grass outside
      “This is quite shocking! He deserves to be publicly disgraced.”
whispered:

out his arms toward the dark water in a curious way, and, far as I was
permit her; but how could she really like an interloper not of her
      yesterday.”
impression that I had taken too much champagne, or something.”
carriage with two ladies Dorian Gray drove past.
picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket;
      when I tell you all.”
the restraints of those who shared the feast, they could afford to add,
      for my poor nerves.”
so nice to her as he was that night, so full of pleasant talk and
had great sympathy with him for it was known that he had married an
The woman is no good to me. Who’ll have her?”
“But he has no family.”
      down the side-glass next to him, and took off my glove, and let
Mr. Farfrae, already in the Town Council, was to be proposed for Mayor
“We are cousins; yes.”
money and the passport of an old name, I could choose my own society:
Fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment

“Yes, she will. She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in
      passed at Hunsford, she mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr.
the table and examined what was under the covers.
that she had been called to a delirious patient in the fever-room. I

serried, along the horizon. Throwing these into distance, rose, in the
stark upon the surface of the stream.
fade! ... And Basil? From a psychological point of view, how
      cousin, and to point him out to her particular notice. The first
He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct

Temple asked Helen if she sometimes snatched a moment to recall the
      “Does that young lady know Mr. Darcy?”
      must divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of
all endways nicely!”
your eyes like an eager bird, and make every now and then a restless
CHAPTER XIX
Camp Taylor, then alone. It amazed him—he had never been in such a
myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began
      is dead. _I_ shall not be able to keep you—and so I warn you. I
to look at my master, because I feared he could not be pleased at my
occupied would almost outweigh the personal humiliation.
weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in
feminine attentions on her playmate and friend.
advised me how to act, and I did it, for I thought it was best. I left
it is liable to abuse.”
victorine. He must have heard the slight movement for he looked up, and
miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture. The
do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art
“No, sir; that I am certain I could not; and therefore I see there is
entirely free.
sycamores on the town walls could be seen from the sitting-room the
“We haven’t met for many years,” said Daisy, her voice as
smile. The smile comprehended Montenegro’s troubled history and
Vale Hall.
should do.”

turning around spoke to her husband in a soft, coarse voice:
stained with dark rings of spilled liquor. Some Malays were crouching
 Chapter IX. The Queen of the Field Mice
before any suspicions would be roused. Months! Everything could be
polished to the brightness of glass; in the dining-room, the sideboard

for half an hour and were driving in a victoria through Central Park.
      His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as
railings after each group of notes.
hate! Your mother and I were man and wife when we were young. What you
Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed? Or had it been simply
cela on apprend.”

bran-new brains.”
aside impatiently but Mr Browne, having first called Freddy Malins’
      still love me.”
“I!—rich?”
Miss Ivors.
promise and deserting the band you engaged to join.”
      in considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable,
“O, no,” said her companion, a quick red shooting over her face.

stem of his crook in the gutter and was resting upon the bow, which was
with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield. Once, some
      flattered and pleased. His wish of introducing his sister to her
he calmed himself and proceeded—
      placed himself by her.
As I rose and dressed, I thought over what had happened, and wondered
the barn homewards; but I did not tell her either; for I thought she
Lucetta. She depicted his impassioned manner; beheld the indecision of
it would reveal to him his own soul. And when winter came upon it, he
      this. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the
Again Lucetta looked out. “They are all farmers, I suppose?” she said.
“Very dimly—each is a luminous cloud.”

but it is quite true.”
the last of his glass of ale. Daisy’s voice got us to our feet and out
demeanour that there was no amatory fire or pulse of romance acting as
Her friends were sorry, but could do nothing to help her; so Dorothy


      opened; and Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not
up each pause, the beating of winter rain against the panes.
discourse on that, to me, memorable evening; her spirit seemed
The fair without the windows was now raging thick and loud. It was the




place?”
“There’s some deal on in that quarter,” said Mr O’Connor thoughtfully.

shop by examining the parcel to see if it was securely tied. When he
      inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that her friends would
“I remained in the balcony. ‘They will come to her boudoir, no doubt,’

      but he was going to be made unhappy; and that it should be
      to hear.
the kitchen, exclaiming:
“Yes.”
you. Come!”
me whilst they endured.
friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may I ask if you really
mentioned; he had left the Melchester coachroad at Weatherbury by a
and after a moment I returned rather feebly to the subject of her
      nephew! Unfeeling, selfish girl! Do you not consider that a
“O, come on, another one won’t do you any harm. What is it? The same

common store of life.

      letter from his pocket. “But perhaps you would like to read it.”
      wait on her at Pemberley the following morning. They were,

“No, I will come down,” he said, struggling to his feet. “I would

      Elizabeth almost stared at her. “Can this be Mr. Darcy?” thought

“But it’s so hot,” insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, “and
no obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid. The light
communicate her joy. A faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all
he laid on the table a new publication—a poem: one of those genuine
and obeyed her as in bygone days.
      to deserve his attention, the first to listen and to pity, the
      taking so material a step without her ladyship’s concurrence.”
herself on the stool, and Aunt Julia, no longer smiling, half turned so
said the younger man. He watched him intently after he had spoken.
something sinister. Its history proved that. Apart from the sanguinary
I caught the words—
remark, but she said nothing.
“We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp
      on each other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s
we are—we wouldn’t see him want anything while he was in it.”
      He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia. His
eye and two for my left,’ she said. ‘And when you’ve used ’em, and my
“These things excite me so,” she whispered. “If you want to kiss me
him. “That does not matter,” he answered. “I simply want to see the
their own holiday gaieties, to bid them a hasty goodbye. I remember
freedom with money was a matter for reproach—but now he’d left Chicago
repulsed me. I felt it was what was to be expected, and what could not
management of his collieries in the Midland counties, excusing himself
That night she became restless; in the morning she was feverish; and at
No: stillness returned: each murmur and movement ceased gradually, and
pose of a well-known conception of Titian’s—talked up at Elizabeth-Jane
“No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part. But you
fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never
food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a
of one of the young women. There was something striking in her
you advertise! I wish I had only offered you a sovereign instead of ten
I obeyed him; then he put the glass on the table, stood before me, and

nor culpable. Still you are miserable; for hope has quitted you on the
      house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard
bee and a butterfly in league for life. She seemed to take no pleasure
escaped—the fragrance of new cedarwood pencils or of a bottle of gum or
And then they had called her to a sofa, where she now sat, ensconced
Winter had almost come, and unsettled weather made her still more

and supplanted him.
day; and all preparations for its arrival were complete. _I_, at least,

bought a mansion where he dispensed starlight to casual moths—so that
differently, I think of them differently. I can now recreate life in a
“Surely he will not be long now: it is just ten (looking at a little
      by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence. Nor
walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed

inexplicability did not rouse him to more than a cursory heed; his

    By thought supplied, or any interest
stimulus: any more than I can be content,” he added, with emphasis, “to
interest—the scene for that matter being one that might have been


her from his soul, to crush her body against his, to overmaster her.
acquainted with its contents, and I continued to read with the greatest

light, which now beamed from a sort of knoll, amidst a clump of

eyes, in the lines of the mouth. Kneel, and lift up your head.”

      marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind. But,
nor subdued by the owner?—what mystery, that broke out now in fire and
“You promise?”


two hours of Henchard’s estimate. Among the other urgent reasons for
“Yes.”
of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring.
“I’d rather look at all these famous people in—in oblivion.”

reapers at work among the sheaves nodded to acquaintances standing on
articles belonging to me, should be left in your possession through
man bowed and retired.
that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her.
rusts my jaws so that I cannot speak.”
 XXXIV
shoulder, my arms round her neck. I was asleep, and Helen was—dead.
      had the honour of preaching before her. She had also asked him
“Oh, very well!” returned Miss Temple; “we must make it do, Barbara, I
often said, was a black eye: it had now a tawny, nay, a bloody light in
well knew how it came there; and her present cheerfulness was fairly
the collar, elbows, seams, and shoulder-blades that long-continued
itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends.
      “Not as you represent it. Had she merely _dined_ with him, she
      you have at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!”

“Promise me one thing.”
      her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the
out to be very objectionable.”



“It is a bright, sunny morning, sir,” I said. “The rain is over and
polished boar-spear. Crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms you had sat on

      “I do not believe he will ever live at Netherfield any more.”
“Then you snatch love and innocence from me? You fling me back on lust
even you know nothing of. The tragedy of old age is not that one is
how could I kill the Wicked Witch? If you, who are Great and Terrible,
CHAPTER XXI

the Colonel called out—
He lifted the hangings from the wall, uncovering the second door: this,

there was no further change in the picture. It had received the news of
more. He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal
As he thought of Hetty Merton, he began to wonder if the portrait in
being the means by which the drover controlled him and kept his horns
with _my wife_, as you term that fearful hag: Grace will do much for
      Catherine; “and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to
      Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and
persuade ourselves to say the word “Farewell!” It was said, and we

hardly conscious of her entry, so that she looked at him quite coolly,
Eliza and Georgiana, evidently acting according to orders, spoke to me

      next day.”
      “She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
science was chiefly founded. I was required to exchange chimeras of

“The way ye are going.”
through; from one of its compartments was extracted a shabby slip of
      a good deal. The whole party have left Netherfield by this time,
her, with careful scorn. To compete with phrasemongers, incapable of

      kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything,
clouds, high and dim; the gleam was such as the moon imparts to vapours
that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new


Wills, Mr. Buzzford, and the like. The Three Mariners having been,
through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and
mind as it had never done before:—
“My good man is packing us off to Skerries for a few weeks.”
on the head. Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme
      received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first
no longer. One day the daughters of a deceased farmer in Durnover
hearts; and if you persevere in doing well, these feelings will ere
      “Another time, Lizzy,” said her mother, “I would not dance with
for a brief moment from the bustle and rush of our everyday routine. We
side of all affairs and was fond of delivering final judgments. He
fantastic shadows were silhouetted against some lamplit blind. He
      “Never, sir.”
not unconnected with the family walked now.
the sermon, dissecting it, weighing it, as above or below the


And did I now think Miss Ingram such a choice as Mr. Rochester would be

made her neat, and having ascertained that I was myself in my usual
to follow it absently. In watching the bird till it made its escape the
doubled.
the morning and slept in their coffins. He asked what they did it for.
breakfast-basins were better filled; when there was no time to prepare
expressed at once stern surprise and keen inquiry. “Is she sarcastic,

Henchard’s wife acted for the best, but she had involved herself in
      by themselves. The one missent must first be attended to; it had
      reflect on her daughter’s nuptials, than to any sense of shame at
all this time and seen most sides of it without being a judge of
Wicked Witch dies you will not see your uncle and aunt again. Remember
“Hush, Hannah! I have a word to say to the woman. You have done your
How St. John received the news, I don’t know: he never answered the
      Fitzwilliam. “But so we all do. It is only that he has better
“And what is hell? Can you tell me that?”
      “And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of
      the amiable and pleasing.
looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the cheerful
and an individual carrying a light entered; another followed close
direction. In this heat every extra gesture was an affront to the
the principal was not. “’Od damn it,” cried Henchard, “what’s all the
But where were you? Did you go down and see the girl’s mother? For a
of her dress and caught the white border of a petticoat, just visible
“but I had forgotten my latch-key. What time is it?”
The crows sailing overhead perhaps watched me while I took this survey.
the heart, and there waking sensation strangely. I waited till the last
were circulated secretly at school. One day when Father Butler was
there waiting, and he had little doubt from the turn which Farfrae and
were now a score of miles at least from home, but, by resting the horse

for him at the _Freeman_ office and he would see that it went in. He
      congratulations to Elizabeth from his wife, the Longbourn family
shaking her head.
beautiful at one step. The garden was silent, dewy, and full of

catapult which bulged from his inner pocket and explained some
for she had the organ in Haddington Road. She had been through the
      below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at her with astonishment.
the unguessed visitor at Farfrae’s had not yet arrived—and parted from
breath but for a moment, was proceeding: his hand was already stretched
your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of
stimulant to the bustle going on in his gaunt, great house; nothing but
“Are you better, my dear fellow?” he asked. “You seemed rather out of

“Do you remember my telling ’ee how it all began and how it ended?
      continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which, in
face, which kept him not long company.” Was it young Herbert’s life
Ado about Nothing. Ladies, keep off, or I shall wax dangerous.”
When Klipspringer had played “The Love Nest” he turned around on the
the sea attracted her. She could not herself account for it fully, not



      conversation. Elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an
“Then she must have had more charity than sense,” said Henchard.
  Chapter 28
      it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the
      “It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham, “for almost all his actions
from the preceding flash. The storm, as is often the case in
returned, and like a mighty tide, overwhelmed every other feeling.

      his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely
various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to
sweetest tone—

reality. A woman did, I doubt not, enter your room: and that woman
him, and that he had even in his Eton days, “I believe that if one man
distinctly audible in the other. Such sounds came through now.
that name? He scorns all tempting liquors; never touches nothing. O
plained of its gaping wounds, its inward bleeding, its riven chords. It

In each of the sisters there was one trait of the mother—and only one;
great triumph nevertheless. The shake of the Royal hand still lingered

his friend.
elongated in shape to the orbit of a comet. All the gipsies and showmen
given him pleasure to watch it changing and growing old. Of late he had
have his force to influence, and his spell to attract; I mean only that
sent for to read to him, found him sitting in his library alone, with

saying nothing, she took up the child and followed him as he made
be managed; and his wife might, I verily believe, be the very happiest
      must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be
died!...

store for him!

life and adventures,” said the second magistrate sharply, filling the
woman who had taken his money. “There goes the devil’s bargain!” she
made an exertion; felt his own strength to do and deny, and was on

“I am come to see how you are spending your holiday,” he said. “Not, I
monster.’
The summer holidays were near at hand when I made up my mind to break
with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on
Dorothy began to sob at this, for she felt lonely among all these
      method of passing the evening because you are in each other’s
of sorts.”
      “Nothing child, nothing. I did not wink at you.” She then sat
You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered
“Why not, Mr. Rochester?”
      “Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said
“It is the face of my soul.”
Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at
haven’t been there for a long time? Maybe I could call up the church
“One lies there,” I thought, “who will soon be beyond the war of
      “My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right
to laugh, history would have been different.”
around the neck of each mouse and the other end to the truck. Of course
Dorothy said nothing. Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he

and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson


errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies
of his prison and set him free. They went in together to the castle,
      better. _I_ should be ashamed of having one that was only


“Benefactress! benefactress!” said I inwardly: “they all call Mrs. Reed
      assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he

him up and set him upon his feet again, while he joined her in laughing
A pause.
      sometimes condescend to employ for captivation. Whatever bears
wanted but a few minutes of six, and shortly after that hour had
      closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to
Why have I alluded to this man? I have alluded to him, Reader, because
rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on the
waited. After waiting for a little time he saw them coming towards him

joy having its bitterness and the memories of pleasure their pain.
had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray? If he had done a tithe of
with the officer in her white car.
      freedom.
“Yes—that’s just it, sir—some of it.”
They went down to a discreet part of the corridor. Mrs Kearney asked

some impossible change in circumstances, which might reunite me to him.

“Will ye come up here?” he said.



have accepted without question the information that Gatsby sprang from
of nightmare; I felt the fiend’s grasp in my neck and could not free

At the moment Aunt Kate came toddling out of the supper-room, almost
Poor folk mun get on as they can.”
business, and proceeded thither as soon as she had put on her bonnet.
      with him before. Mr. what’s-his-name. That tall, proud man.”

“If they are really qualified for the task, will not their own hearts
      how continually we are engaged there. In truth I must acknowledge

raised his hand in a sort of benediction.
Good God! Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for
      pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”
as you are, sir, shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our
love him that he was poor, and she had believed him. He had told her
old, St. John,” said she.
      deserves.”
things around in little green carts, which they pushed before them.

shall!” he went about saying. “I am not going to be sat upon by
beautiful waltz, Miss Daly. It made lovely time.”

On her arrival below the landlady, who was as kind as she was fat and

     They had their way: they laid him low.
my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach. The
      perpetual commendations of the lady either on his handwriting,
doctor returned to the bedside again. The man was despatched, and they
Thursday, and I gave them leave to put on clean tuckers for the

      his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with
for much. It is rather the other way.”
my shoe from me.”
and, really, that was the only thing I wished in all the world.”
came to the university with the design of making himself complete
“A new generation is growing up in our midst, a generation actuated by
aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from any
Gabriel knitted his brows and said, as if he were slightly angered:
pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass

“How do you do, my dear? I am afraid you have had a tedious ride; John
out of order, unless Mr. Rochester should take it into his head to come

you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever
thought it hard to remain during my youth cooped up in one place and had
“I am so glad,” she continued, as she sat down opposite to me, and took
      hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will
had any right to mention Daisy’s name.
ever desire to be. If people were always kind and obedient to those who
afraid, one of her victims also.”
      “How could I ever think her like her nephew?” said she, as she

only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years. The forms of
Suddenly Uncle Henry stood up.
water has spotted your clothes.’ Quelala was much too wise not to swim,
become aware that the automobiles which turned expectantly into his
bell; steps, too, often traversed the hall, and new voices spoke in
Scarecrow had decided what to do.
tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. I had
“Oh, there is really very little to tell, Harry,” answered the painter;
“I was absorbed, sir: yes, and I was happy. To paint them, in short,
afternoon advanced, while I thus wandered about like a lost and


least. Then Farley got out of breath and cried _“Stop!”_ A man brought


He was walking home about eleven o’clock from Lord Henry’s, where he
“Tut-tut! How could you be so simple?”
      Mrs. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning

She faltered, “Why?”
presentiment of what it would be to me; no inward warning that the

Elizabeth he would not have searched the drawer for papers, and so on.


I know that it was the effluence of fine intellect, of true courage; it
      little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the
Kearney.
few drops that revived me, and vanish.
“You don’t know his name, though,” said the lad harshly.
love. When she knew its unreality, she died, as Juliet might have died.
perfumed wood thickly incrusted with nacre, a present from Lady Radley,
      minutes, to take leave—but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been
and that I was come to see Mr. Rochester. I asked John to go down to
place this afternoon. Have they summoned you?”
there was a tree.”
“Well, who am I?” he asked.
      Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between
“I heard him once,” Mr Kernan continued. “I forget the subject of his
“Mark me—I’ll not go after her!” said the trusser, returning doggedly
      was too much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that Sir
“Be careful!” cried the green girl. “The tears will fall on your green
“It must have been one of them,” interrupted my master.
naturally vicious. The Lowood constraint still clings to you somewhat;

went down at eight o’clock to the theatre. Sibyl was playing Rosalind.

facts of her peculiar intimacy with the corn-merchant became plain from
      Elizabeth, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience

of the reasons I had come East. You can’t stop going with an old
one hour—suffocating with the bitterest tears of remorse and shame the
strange chances that have lately occurred. You were thrown, by some
      fervently did she value his remembrance, and prefer him to every

“It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian,” said
“Always glad to have a rest, Mr. Gray,” answered the frame-maker, who
resolved to make as light as he could of his intentions, while
science. With a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my

having thrown his hat and cape on the table, passed through the library
“You said I might go, sir.”


cried:
      listen. I was sometimes quite provoked, but then I recollected my

knew, partly from experience and partly from instinct, that was the way
“Who are you? Charlie?”
“All right,” I agreed, “I’ll be glad to.”
      parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in
      five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of

      spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure
thoughtlessly, at that former time, as to lose her credit by it?
been told to him, it had yet stirred him by its suggestion of a
      “What do you mean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.”
“O then, you were in love with him?” said Gabriel.
I was about to propound a question, touching the manner in which that
I agreed that it was splendid.
thinking. My reflections were too undefined and fragmentary to merit

except for nights’ lodgings, till he reached the town of Casterbridge,
down, they say.”
      impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide in
been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean
drums of his destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor’s
fellows had talents like his and fewer still could remain unspoiled by
“God grant it may be so! Here, Jane, is an arbour; sit down.”
devoted and wondrous nature that the worldly-minded teach us to look for only

of sky-blue crape; a gauzy azure scarf was twisted in her hair. She had

once dived into a doorway. He was now safe in the dark snug of
fearful shriek could not soon repeat it: not the widest-winged condor
appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in
standing on the pavement in front; and wishing to escape the notice of
the present they hung together somewhat spoiled and tangled. I cannot

eyes on the fire, and seemed to forget me. Georgiana added to her “How
      “But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions
since Henchard’s avowal of shame for a past action. The quivering of
“I’ve heard of it.”
      the daughter.
      it. I know your disposition, Lizzy. I know that you could be

“No, he was gone from home.”
me.”

I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by
 Chapter XIV. The Winged Monkeys
sacred place.” Then addressing Mason, he inquired gently, “Are you
They dispersed about the room, reminding me, by the lightness and
      great satisfaction, a message from her ladyship, importing that

      The darling wish of his sisters was then gratified; he bought an
a saucepan. In the deep shade, at the farther end of the room, a figure


      Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s marriage; but
where the children are under fourteen” (I thought that as I was barely



was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted. She consoled
“Doesn’t she like Wilson either?”
When Farfrae descended out of the loft breathless from his encounter
Mrs Malins was helped down the front steps by her son and Mr Browne
      Darcy mentioned his letter. “Did it,” said he, “did it soon make

of the intellect—simply a confession of failure. Faithfulness! I must
“Devil, cease; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice.
selfish as to let this giddy girl devote herself to me over at Jersey,
You have not quite forgotten little Adèle, have you, reader? I had not;
      certain that you can be happy with him?”
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Who are you, and why do you seek me?”
“Let him keep it, of course,” murmured another in the background—a

He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his
land, and Sophie came after, and we all got into a coach, which took us
go—thank you for the pleasure of this visit.”
they pulled it down for improvements, so I seem hardly to have any home
“I will not let him,” said the Woodman; “so do not be afraid.”
they were flat but fertile, and almost every town was marked by the
      “Yes, ma’am, all.”
me at leisure, he said—

      differently. But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the
shrugging his shoulders. “I cannot sympathize with that. It is too

his boots became familiar to the eyes of every bystander. The tune had
      powers had gained him in the mess. After pausing on this point a
been seen flitting about the town like two butterflies—or rather like a

      living might be his as soon as it became vacant. There was also a
brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with
At that moment the hall-door was opened and Mr Browne came in from the
ten years, but ten years with Monmouth must have been like eternity,
Cross to make bandages. I was. Well, then, would I tell them that she

As he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck through him like a
had said.

safety of others is committed to my care.
then, after glancing warily up and down the street, went into the shop
“With an actress,” said Dorian Gray, blushing.
      Mr. Collins!”
door, and looked at the sunset of the harvest-day, and at the quiet
past entanglement with Henchard, when they were alone in the solitude

lamps and sleigh bells in the frosty dark and the shadows of holly
chatter of the clubs—could not believe anything to his dishonour when
twelve rubies and fifty-two great orients. The ducal hat of Charles the
No sympathy may I ever find. When I first sought it, it was the love of
to go together. That is all over now. As long as a woman can look ten

the whole force of the revelation. She ascended to the top of the
cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs—a dress which I have
room.
      the middle before I knew that I _had_ begun.”

         Calmly he rests: no human pain
his presence had been the need of his authority to send to Budmouth for
      allusions of her mother. As for the gentleman himself, _his_
anything about it. But the world might guess it, and I will not bare my
      more desirable to such as did think, than such as did not.
pleasant ease tranquillised your manner: snarl as I would, you showed
Mr Hynes laughed.
now with any respect are people much younger than myself. They seem in
When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough
on dark mottled pillars of green marble and on lugubrious canvases. The
      with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth

the mansion. It was three storeys high, of proportions not vast, though
you’ll bide where you be a minute, father, I’ll get it.”
drunk, he threw open a window significantly.
When thus alone, I not unfrequently heard Grace Poole’s laugh: the same

step or two from his chair.
“What an old-fashioned place it seems to be!” said Elizabeth-Jane,
uprooting my bad propensities.
allowing his eyes to travel over the intricate wood-carvings of the


pushing his head into the internal works to master their simple


When she had an opportunity, she called Mr Holohan aside and asked him

seize it—you take time by the forelock! This, then, is how you be going
could leave the dance had ended, the housekeeper had informed
“No. If I get a little thin, it is with anxiety about my prospects, yet
      her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.
having reached the leads, looked out afar over sequestered field and
Great Oz dwelt.
      of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be
walls of the room were bare except for a copy of an election address.
words, passed over Gatsby’s face.
      himself, and took leave.
I were some toad or ape.”
“Mmmyes, I believe so.... I think he’s what you call a black sheep. We
“And Mason?”
supposed her asleep. I rushed towards her and embraced her with ardour, but

dissecting room and the slaughter-house furnished many of my materials;
room with a sanded floor, clean scoured; a dresser of walnut, with
grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking
“What do I owe you?” demanded Tom harshly.
him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though


unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although innocent;
will send it. You know what the result will be. But you are going to
lingered and lingered—as my bleeding patient drooped, moaned, sickened:
history: among the readers I observed my acquaintance of the verandah:
before.”


      “Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?” said Miss Bingley;
almost to kill me. I took no note of the lapse of time—of the change
      fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sister’s countenance
tapped at the door; not even Mrs. Fairfax had sought me. “Friends

she turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in her arms.
retribution to stand by. “I am the son of some wealthy people in the
      “Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,” said
conservatory on to the terrace. As the glass door closed behind Dorian,
answered: and then I proceeded to tell him how I had been received at
She could hear the servant showing the visitor into the room, shutting
shape. One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother,
voice:
its inhabitants.”
of the little community—that inhabiting the Durnover quarter—the

There is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction,
ill-famed tavern near the docks which, under an assumed name and in

dogs, pass on towards the north, at the distance of half a mile; a
scrupulosity was so well understood by the landlord that the whole
was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. He
protracted a stay at Thornfield.”

regarded her, at least, there could be little doubt. And a few hours
A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was wrinkled
      but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed
paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired
glancing at the clock. As the minutes went by he became horribly

example, “when we went to the penny-a-week school.”
and his face slowly re-emerged into light. It was an old man’s face,
      take place. What congratulations will then flow in! I appeal to
it, saying she was ironing downstairs, and, after having exchanged a
      house did give him a most flaming character! I could hardly help
the Scarecrow twisted its neck also. There were forty crows, and forty
laughing girl gave him this information. He lifted his gaze, too, from
towards the cottagers. Their happiness was not decreased by the
last I was well, and came away. When I was gone she suffered much on my
met you here about a month ago.”
and found she was crying herself at this sorrowful parting from her



“I do,” said she, after glancing at her husband’s face and seeing no
“Man,” I cried, “how ignorant art thou in thy pride of
toujours tort_.”
“Whenever he sees I’m having a good time he wants to go home.”
With fenders spread like wings we scattered light through half
afraid even to growl while she stood by.
the Tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them
have placed you, and regard me with a weary, passive look.
      turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and

“Then you have been both?”
I heard it to-night by chance. Make your peace with God, for to-night

was of good family, well bred, and well educated—the daughter of some
children. A little boy came running down the stairs.
      Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have
about her parents: I wonder if she remembers them?”
He landed me on the pavement. As John took his horse, and he followed
would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really
      comes into the neighbourhood.”

rightly?”
“What can possess him to come home in that style?” said Miss Ingram.
      the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.”
not have felt it pass away from under my hand, and seen it vanish
allaying, piqued my curiosity more than ever.
      what I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions
whole of our good Uncle Thomas’ library. My education was neglected,
flowers that surrounded them would never end. They followed the bend of
      towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally

fury and, when he thought of the woman in the big hat who had brushed
some smart women with her.”
“What does Bessie say I have done?” I asked.
for God’s sake, don’t desire a useless burden! Don’t long for
rising. But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations
      civility, and, above all, of his wishing her to be acquainted
stranger!... I couldn’t believe you were not the man I had engaged!
“You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into
am making the most delightful plans for your future. Do say something.”
while they sang with emphasis:
After breakfast, Adèle and I withdrew to the library, which room, it
For nearly ten minutes he stood there, motionless, with parted lips and
That night, after he had kissed his sisters, he thought proper to


Marseilles counterpane. Scarcely less prominent was an ample cushioned
But success _shall_ crown my endeavours. Wherefore not? Thus far I
is the problem I study. Kneel again on the rug.”
And Miss Ingram had looked down at her with a mocking air, and

      embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.

harmony of the old man’s instrument nor the songs of the birds; I since
guardian’s party), bounded forward, scattering round her the contents
      as he is insinuating.”
      again. Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet,
In the circular current imparted by the central flow the form was
vulgar about everything of the kind. “They don’t know my name,” he

withdrew.
foster, not to blight—to earn gratitude, not to wring tears of
      anything of which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued,
live for.”
“Mrs. Poole,” said she, addressing Grace, “the servants’ dinner will
friends; and if he could speak, he would not be silent.”
They now came upon more and more of the big scarlet poppies, and fewer
wanted?”
“Let her be taken care of; let her be treated as tenderly as may be:
will sound somewhat hackneyed in your ears; but stale details often

to arrange it for you. Just mention my name. Or present a green card.
      already, _make_ them marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not
miserable pocket. At length a caged goldfinch met his eye. The cage was
but each time I tried to go I became entangled in some wild, strident
      that she was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to
      could think without interruption of all that she had heard. It
     For he lies dead whom the fell gang
The duchess is coming.”
      difficulty in finding out even so much as this.”
      women should always be properly guarded and attended, according
      “My dear madam,” he replied, “this invitation is particularly
given you lay untouched in its little casket; your trunks were left
Templeman and her companion; but in fact it was rather that Elizabeth
“Yes,” said Lucetta.
words went no further, and after this day she was so much upon her
Henchard’s voice arose above the rest; he was telling a story of his
O’Connor.
“It’s when it’s all over that you’ll miss him,” said my aunt.

in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of

progress, entertained for me a vivacious, though perhaps not very

      orders.”

      ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all
Miss Eyre? Are you fond of presents?” and he searched my face with eyes
comparatively a large one, had been built of mud by the occupier’s own
you fancy only God can see.”
pleased and suited me no less. Our natures dovetailed: mutual
without a friend, without a coin. I must do something. What? I must
So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the



A man named Klipspringer was there so often that he became known as
the invisible.... Yes, Mr. Gray, the gods have been good to you. But
removing, she thought the request had something to do with his

cheered her; and it was not till she thought of returning to that home
“No, no!” said Mr Browne.
      too well to doubt the rest. She has no money, no connections,
“How, sir?”
gates.

      humour that could make him, for her sake, forego every chance of
Donald was a thing to be desired for her good and his own, he hated the
slaving amongst strangers! I, wealthy—gorged with gold I never earned
“Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool,” suggested
wished to leave early next day.
glow of a furnace: mentally, I still possessed my soul, and with it the
like a Greek face, very pure in outline: quite a straight, classic
heights, surround the pole, and concentre the multiplied rigours of
unsteady concentration at the shelves of books. As we entered he

quivered with pleasure. When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow

own family group.

      were so favourable, that when they parted at night, she would

me as his wife, and do not try to make me wretched by covert sneers. I
he had just said. Possibly it had occurred to him that the colossal
walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.
around him with joy. “Never have I seen a more beautiful place.”

desperate, “grant me at least a new servitude!”
asunder the wood, and sent a raving sound through the air, often
came back again; I walked to the window, across the room, then close up


“With me?” said Gabriel.
all to her liking!”


“Will these people remain long, do you think?”
direction in the hope of meeting her, the roysterers having vanished.
I heard a noise: the wind, I thought, shook the door. No; it was St.
Chapter 50

Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine
great energy. He avoided her eyes for he had seen a sour expression on
exhibited. He said that “These were men to whose indefatigable zeal
“You young men think you can force your way in here any time,” she
swallow a small quantity. As soon as he showed signs of life we
left for London three weeks ago, but he was then expected to return in
Some distant lamp or lighted window gleamed below me. I was thankful

“I’m afeard I mustn’t! Mr. Henchard said——”

that subject the better, Mr. Brocklehurst.”

“In course!” he exclaimed, with a twang of voice and a distortion of
soft yet.”

      through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to
nurse; when it was over, she lay some minutes exhausted; then she

have committed no crime, and done you no injury.”
one end of the top shelf. Writing materials were always on the desk. In

“That would make me very unhappy,” answered the china Princess. “You
girl well reared and disciplined, but a wild boy indulged from
playing the piano, and beside her stood a tall, red-haired young lady
Still, now that he reviewed the past, Little Chandler could remember
and lavender trousers and carried a silk hat gracefully balanced upon
mangled the living flesh of a human being. I paused to collect myself and
be so wownded about it?” inquired Christopher Coney, from the
      to the preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason
Dorian’s arms fell to his side. Paralysed with terror, he did not know
      frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as

moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness. Anguish and


answered, for I wanted the bird to be secure of its bread: the sash

      Mr. Wickham, his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to
raise his axe another wolf came up, and he also fell under the sharp
“Yes, and a quick way out of our troubles,” replied the Lion. “How
which were so brilliant in color they almost dazzled Dorothy’s eyes.
and the prospect of their arrival, seemed to throw her into ecstasies.

her to marry me: but what she said is yet to be recorded in the book of
talking with curious intensity to a young actress, and his wife, after
the motions of his head flung about like a flail.
mine in mind; it won’t do to neglect her; she is a Fairfax, or wed to
      “Unless where they like women of fortune, which I think they very
A. Flink, and the Hammerheads, and Beluga the tobacco importer, and
it! Some say it was a just judgment on him for keeping his first
longed to enter the world and take my station among other human beings. 
departure, even more than hot temper could have done.
while Oz was alive he never was allowed to come farther than the door.
“I shall be charmed. But won’t you miss your train?” said Dorian Gray
men’s arms, even into groups, knowing that someone would arrest their
jumping in. Moreover, not forgetting his principles, Henchard provided
precipitation. In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot
His lips and cheeks turned white—quite white.
“Those are few in number, and difficult to discover.”
work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily
      table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring
the beggar. But their own souls starve, and are naked. Courage has gone
“but I am glad you don’t think I am heartless. I am nothing of the
kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at the
      the sake of Mr. Collins too! Why should _he_ have it more than
the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
He had changed since his New Haven years. Now he was a sturdy
      Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by
Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair,

      idea; and Mrs. Collins did not think it right to press the
I had no designs upon it—but everyone near by, including the woman,
The candle, wasted at last, went out; as it expired, I perceived
look in the eyes. I don’t know what Harry has been saying to you, but

ornament of rich, plenteous tresses—all advantages, in short, which,
“though not starlight; Mr. Rochester has, on the whole, had a
wholesome soil of an English country garden. Mrs. Fairfax found you to
They walked along listening to the singing of the brightly colored
“The want of house or brass (by which I suppose you mean money) does
      quite well.”
purpose. I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue
I had finished the business now. While earnestly wishing to erase from
Nevertheless, Lucetta seemed relieved by the simple fact of having
there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge merchantman. The


      She has been doing everything in her power by thinking and
delivered by a young lady who arranged amateur theatricals. It was

She started the pen in an elephantine march across the sheet. It was a
house tomorrow? Miss Baker would be there. Half an hour later Daisy
Physically, she far excelled me: she was handsome; she was vigorous. In
      Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs.

      “It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to
God! And I’ll have nothing done but what’s honourable.”
      of late it has been shifting about pretty much. For my part, I am
here-about—why, ’tis a thing we can’t do every day; and there’s good
again put his arm upon the young man’s shoulder so as to nearly weigh
rose.
 Let me know about the funeral etc do not know his family at all.
      of Mr. Collins’s making two offers of marriage within three days
“God will protect you; for you have undertaken His work,” I answered.
the folds of her dress. She moved again, and I fled.
“What do you want?” she inquired, in a voice of surprise, as she
image and that inconstant shade.
      dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the
floated toward her. “Ah,” she cried, “you look so cool.”
  Chapter 55
hear, Susan?—I don’t drink now—I haven’t since that night.” Those were
assure you that you partially misinterpret my emotions. You think them
can, even now, remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this
the snow got into our shoes and melted there: our ungloved hands became

second, stood out a strong, solid probability. Circumstances knit
deservedly applauded; and, when it was ended, the men went out for the
obstacle whom they would be heartily glad to get out of the way.
step out—that’s it!”
“‘Hideous monster! Let me go. My papa is a syndic—he is M.
“Why—O what?” She drew closer, and whispered in her mother’s ear, “Does


antipathy. Having opened my chamber window, and seen that I left all
So they sat down to consider what they should do, and after serious
“I wish I was richer, Miss Newson; and your stepfather had not been
Attacked by the Fighting Trees
Returning from her appointment Lucetta saw a man waiting by the lamp
pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me.


on me, and then I moved away to the window.
      and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well.”
As she patted the dog’s head, bending with native grace before his
“But that teacher, Miss Scatcherd, is so cruel to you?”

with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone? You, my
même il y en avait:” she was sure they would never appear to him, nor
      did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his
more thought on the matter than it was worth. How many minutes, for

      you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry
closely printed as the law notices in the newspaper, elucidating all
Tom turned to me.

      consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as
It was about a month after the day which closed as in the last chapter.
courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders
lying on the hall table. He opened it and found it was from Dorian
alone: promise me to go to the nursery.”

Instead of vouchsafing a direct reply, he stiffly observed—
dimensions as the kitchen, with a deal bedstead and chest of drawers;
on immortality.’”

gradations of glory, from the pale human soul to brighten to the

“All out of doors are there.”
      condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family?
      approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil

“Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a

to do, almost died of _ennui_, and became a confirmed misanthrope. And
some time he came back. “Harry,” he said, “Dorian Gray is to me simply

these things when Lucetta came noiselessly behind her and made her


      “Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The

She held out her hand. He just touched it. “Good evening!” he repeated,
and made thin elongating glints upon the roadside wires. Turning a
      parents, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.
“I will call Diana and Mary.”

felt herself in the way (though Joe’s wife was ever so nice with her)
pleasant autumn day, I found myself afoot on the road to Lowton. A
Hymn; so that chronologists of the advanced school were appreciably on

convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence. Indeed, who would credit
offices that I had seen done by Felix. I afterwards found that these
Rochester’s. I must leave him, it appears. I do not want to leave him—I
the quickset, together with the wayfarer’s hat and head, and

happened that protracted my stay.

      her observation that was passing in the room during these visits.
shy, and so very sombre?” She filled up the hiatus his silence left by
adduced; an open admission of the truth had been uttered by my master;
Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of

little Keogh the cripple, she and her brothers and sisters. Ernest,
my ambitions, getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden
      unrestrained wonder, and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him
Then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in
“At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and
serious fight o’ married parties, every murder, every manslaughter,
expression break forth over his face from the corners of his nose and
shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create another like
a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of

chilled with the frosty night air; but their pleasant countenances

“So you’ve had a snub,” said Jopp.

to feel, through the open glass door, the breathing of a fresh and
lead the most commonplace lives. They are good husbands, or faithful
go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy
“I must sow poppies in my garden,” sighed Dorian.
      his second daughter. The improvement of spending a night in
      And her neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their
dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage. Some
      “But if you have got them to-day,” said Elizabeth, “my mother’s
when he saw me, pointing to my trunk in the passage.
      knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his


happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit! Let me see that I

the friendly gleam again, from the lozenged panes of a very small
      receive an offer of marriage from Mr. Darcy! That he should have
“Well, I was.”
      Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I
“I was: I know that; and you hinted a while ago at something which had

day Donald Farfrae broached the subject to Henchard by asking if he

      rather a punishment than a pleasure.”
his own voice, proceeded:
      injunctions that she should not miss the opportunity of enjoying
      forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance. She
rest, but returned immediately to Geneva. Even in my own heart I could
must find you a nice wife. Lord Henry, don’t you think that Mr. Gray
to raise my voice at the question. Now shall I dance for you?”
“Yes, I am glad now. I wonder shall I always be glad?”
      the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by such an
      came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be
XLIII.

departure. But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and
life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own beauty.
cold white grease on his plate. The girl came over to him to ask was


could know them. I was brought up a dependent; educated in a charitable

circumstances or whether such and such sins were mortal or venial or
Donald had been her undeclared lover, and wondered what unwished-for
avoided sobbing. The thought of Mrs. O’Gall and Bitternutt Lodge struck

of a basket of flowers she carried on her arm. Then appeared the

Her eyes flashed around her in a defiant way, rather like Tom’s, and

a more splendid scene: the ladies were magnificently dressed; most of
go.”

little boys soon discovered that they could enter through my yard, and
dined in an eating-house in George’s Street where he felt himself safe
from a single window, after all.

rubies running round it. This Golden Cap had a charm. Whoever owned it
on the instant divested herself of her bonnet and cloak in the passage.
      never be distressed for money. Well, much good may it do them!
precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of
Couldn’t he have some spark of manhood about him?”


      a distance, and be satisfied.”
frost and desolation; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the
she. She was in a room the folding-doors of which stood open: I went in

table with the two girls in yellow and three men, each one introduced


      woman without some money. He cannot afford it. And what claims
      “Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house
      handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand,
“Ah! that’s the knack!”
“All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys.”
      been. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and
“I am told,” said the third man, “that it is the same at the West. And
      something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained
Everyone’s heart palpitated as Leo Dillon handed up the paper and

sprawled on the counter reading the _Herald_ and yawning. Now and again
death-struck, swayed full and mighty above me in one sullen mass. That
Graces of the Dublin musical world.”
      “Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far
globes.
advantages. Mr. Rochester is an amateur of the decided and eccentric:

Merry days were these at Thornfield Hall; and busy days too: how
      which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than
“Nobody’s in,” she said. “Mr. Wolfshiem’s gone to Chicago.”
They walked side by side in the direction of the avenue for nearly
      much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any
November, December, and half of January passed away. Christmas and the


scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a country-booth. But
thoroughfare. Elizabeth trotted through the open door in the dusk, but

winders at my mortification all the way along, and laughing me to scorn
The other answered that people said it was not only in such things as


single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
      necessary to me. I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits
“We are talking about poor Dartmoor, Lord Henry,” cried the duchess,
      Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her
“I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it
I excuse you; but understand that so long as my visitors stay, I expect
argument which pulled me back, as if with ropes, into my chair. Yet
“Bless you!—I knew you would come!” exclaimed Mrs. Leaven, as I
of its rotundity; her skin had undergone a textural change; and though

      I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my
      you may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon
      “Gracechurch Street, _Sept_. 6.
colour, “I will not mention it if it agitates you; but your father
“Not very good, Dorian. I think most of the birds have gone to the
to his home. When he went in by the side-door he found the kitchen

“They are, indeed,” said the Scarecrow, “and I am thankful I am made of
      stay much longer, and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what
      the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be her husband
really subsiding, she loosened her hold of me; then she and Miss Abbot
I gave her a shilling: she put it into an old stocking-foot which she
single lady in the room who has not been to her yet, and she swears she


      yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I
finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist
higher than domestic endearments and household joys.”
“Is there no one who can help me?” asked Dorothy earnestly.


nearly five minutes, she presented it across the counter, accompanying
      from going wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a
 Chapter 2
“I did not come down to you, Miss Templeman,” she said simply. “I was
When it was all ready, Oz sent word to his people that he was going to
club. We are rather late, as it is.”

certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to
and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with
“Yes. Two images on a donkey, back to back, their elbows tied to one
holland coat over his shirt-front, and in other ways toning himself
At this moment there was a shrill whistle, and the landlady said to the
dry bread will not stick in my throat.”
For a long time there was none, beyond the voice of a weak bird singing
My life might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to
      her beautiful little design for a table, and I think it
towards me from the other end of the street. As it drew nearer I observed
now. There!—Carter has done with you or nearly so; I’ll make you decent
and all that; and though ’tis a shilling a week less I’m the richer
      ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness
greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each
“Why are you come here, Jane? It is past eleven o’clock: I heard it
wailing, despairing voice.

gnarled that they had pulled their stakes out of the ground and stood
at all. Wild rumours were circulating about her—how her mother had
      animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in no
David, the evil spirit would have been exorcised without the aid of the
      illustrious personages in this land.’
“Mr. Rochester, I thought you were not fond of children?”
the day named, and required a shelter for the same, to which they might
me and grabbed my arm.
shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which
I wished a righteous wish,—I am rewarded now. To be your wife is, for
      equivocal, that her mother, though often disheartened, had never
man, whenever he passed the house he seldom or never turned his head.
wonderful tricks I have learnt, to kill time. Sit there and don’t
      himself; but, whenever she did catch a glimpse, she saw an
jamming the staff into the hinge of the barn-door, and wedging it there
nothing in the way of their courses, whatever they might mean. If he
love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate. If she is condemned, I
Mrs. Fairfax, the housekeeper, away to her friends at a distance; but

      instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by her. These
me without mist or veil, I cannot tell. But I know that as I worked at
      “I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elizabeth will

“You want a brooch,” said Mrs. Fairfax. I had a single little pearl

weeks, then, like it, it faded, flickered: not a line, not a word
Swear endless enmity.
done, or could ever do, something higher than mere tawdry journalism if
And on the morrow Justine died. Elizabeth’s heart-rending eloquence
church-goers, supported at the back by a circle of forty chairs.
infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study; and I, who

“Why have you come to the South Country?”
“g—”
to meet me here at the stroke of twelve; but I’ve gone athwart and
fruit.
kindness, but she had no bonnet that would harmonize. As an artistic
us and their influences upon us seemed to wane.
My swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus. But I must
and a field for their efforts, as much as their brothers do; they
the bourne: but I could not reach it, even in fancy—a counteracting
woman’s heart and—it would not do.”
      Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference
the windows of a jewellery store. Suddenly he saw me and walked back,
had expressed herself; besides I had noted her feigned voice, her
shut up the chaise door, and the vehicle drove away.
sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield. After a time the
approached me unnoticed. I responded that it was merely a fancy head,
dissuade her from it. “The vocation will fit you to a hair,” I thought:
admit some fresh air into the close abode of sickness. Indisposed to
      How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?”
at one time, I liked him so well. And now he’s defied me! But damn him,
confiding to the girl her former relations with Henchard, leaving it to
they had set out to meet him on the Budmouth Road.
“What became of the poor woman?” asked Farfrae.
open, and I hastened to my father’s house. My first thought was to
was again frozen over, and my frankness was congealed beneath it. He
The room grew doubly hot and Ségouin’s task grew harder each moment:
indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance. I
yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”
been tampered with and that the picture was still there. What if it
“I cannot imagine,” replied the Scarecrow; “but we can go and see.”
paraphrase a recent poet—never a gloom in Elizabeth-Jane’s soul but she
“Choose then, sir—_her who loves you best_.”
his fixing such a time, for ’a never has told anybody. But ’tis exactly
from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You
backward along the shaded walk reaching to the top of the town. His
AFTER THE RACE
brought a breath of opulence among the company.
“Because I am comfortable there.”

rustling trees. Tom stopped beside the porch and looked up at the
      unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid, he so far
“Go away, Harry,” cried the lad. “I want to be alone. Basil, you must
CHAPTER XIX.
Everyone tried to quiet him. The music-hall _artiste_, a little paler
tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am
      A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her
      sister’s was involved in it, as she thought he must be sensible
      “I do indeed,” replied Elizabeth, colouring. “I told you, the
from view. The police, on the strength of what he said to Michaelis,
finest portrait of modern times. Mr. Gray, come over and look at
doubt me; I don’t doubt myself: I know what my aim is, what my motives
      taken place with that gentleman’s concurrence.
“See the accident?” asked the policeman.

idea of the sort. But you eat nothing: you have scarcely tasted since
leaves one unsatisfied. What more can one want? Yes, Dorian, you will
part from which he expected to see Corley and the young woman return.
Georgiana, who had a spoiled temper, a very acrid spite, a captious and
      perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as
to-morrow morning, and never come near you more, I am content to go.”
      best intentions.”
them was no higher than Dorothy’s knee.
to him to be something tragic in a friendship so coloured by romance.
often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn’t look at all

yourself declared your guilt. That report, you say, is false; and be


brothers and sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz
“We must go and search for water,” she said to him.
Chapter 24
weather-beaten, I never dared complain, because I saw that to murmur


discover me. If a gust of wind swept the waste, I looked up, fearing it

      conviction to him.”
      Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated
“I don’t know if he will be able to come, Harry. He may have to go to
dreadful beasts.”

      friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements
“What are your commands?” inquired the King of the Monkeys, bowing low.
      the road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the
“In my circumstances.”
The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black

“Who knows?” he said, as they lifted their glasses. “When you come next
feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the

opportunity of referring to the sufferings of the primitive Christians;


during the noontide recreation, I told her I had a prospect of getting


appearance. An immense scarf of peacock-blue muslin was wound round her
his life and habits, he yet did not appear to enjoy that mental
      easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the
hold of him: she stung him; but the sting was salutary: it gave him
An inaudible reply escaped Mason’s white lips.
together under this hospitable roof, around this hospitable board. It
face which make me sceptical of her tractability.” He stood considering

“Yes, sir.”

      sister’s partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call
      “I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have
“Pooh! No—a mere scratch. Don’t be so overcome, man: bear up! I’ll
      a day or two, to shoot there for several weeks. Mrs. Bennet was
matter. It fooled me. This fella’s a regular Belasco. It’s a
Men are hard-hearted, and kind angels only

When the Scarecrow found himself among his friends again, he was so
could not wear over one’s face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous
      much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it
“They are monstrous beasts with bodies like bears and heads like
      to work on Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred.
“I do not know,” answered Boq gravely, “for I have never been there. It
and other dangerous animalcules be as common as blackbirds
“I couldn’t get to the house,” he remarked.

I regarded her, of course, with special interest. First, I wished to


and populous towns occupy the scene.
past; of countries far away; of secrets of nature discovered or guessed
destruction, but trode the old track with stupid exactness not to
brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of

to peruse and learn all my life; but the more I try to know the more
      The separation between her and her family was rather noisy than
      character. _Her_ mind was less difficult to develop. She was a

“Ah, now, I never feel like it,” said Farfrae.
declared she could not possibly go to sleep while the doors kept
colour. The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus,
had donned for the first time.
George the Third, and another of the Prince of Wales, and a

should be lost.”
Tin Woodman.”
Not that St. John harboured a spirit of unchristian vindictiveness—not
humiliation of my towels—while Gatsby and I waited on the lawn.
in my manner, and something, I doubt not, of that haughty fierceness
“What would Uncle Reed say to you, if he were alive?” was my scarcely
Elizabeth-Jane had perceived from Henchard’s manner that in assenting
For several subsequent days I saw little of Mr. Rochester. In the
joke no longer.”
of the field.
“Quite rich, sir. If you won’t let me live with you, I can build a
      fresh pain. I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious
know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned
pride has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered
public-house in this town!”
      her equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your
      hope of being at home again in a day or two. Jane was already so
of the sitter. The sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. It is

      Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and
      remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her

“Come away, Jim; come away,” she whispered. He followed her doggedly as

      health allowed her to learn.”

      about it. He did not repeat his persuasion of their not

wonderfully so far. I have brought you a book for evening solace,” and
“_Credo!_” said Mr Cunningham. “That showed the faith he had. He

“Call the Winged Monkeys,” suggested the Tin Woodman. “You have still
wouldn’t give an advance.... He knew where he would meet the boys:
      Denny tempted me further by his account of their present


could talk a while when the evening commenced, but the first gush of
in bed, and, as they thought, asleep, “Missis was, she dared say, glad

showed the feeling, he would make me sensible that it was a
he went; whether or not he saw her he took no notice, and disappeared.
“Don’t speak!”
“Well?” I said, as he again paused—“proceed.”
being served, and Jordan invited me to join her own party, who were
danced and sang. Then the two next-door girls handed round the nuts.

street; but I have thought better of this.
      Elizabeth, though she did not credit above half of what was said,
“You _are_ original,” said he, “and not timid. There is something brave

“The artful little woman!” he said, smiling (with reference to
“At first I din’ notice we’d stopped.”


“You killed the Witch of the East and you wear the silver shoes, which
growing downcast, and his manner that of a man much moved by the
paragraph:
us if Detroit is his idea of a small town …”
shape again.
of being led to anything higher, expanded to anything larger—when I
“You’ve been seeing this fellow for five years?”
sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill. He wished me to

over the hill and set them down in the beautiful country of the
rosette, while more surprising still, in his hand he carried a flag of
      impossible to think of anything else; and, totally indisposed for



ten more dogs with it.”
down at an uncovered wooden table opposite two work-girls and a

his guardian’s wife, a pretty professional invalid who had spent the


Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.

previous communication had vanished from her mood; she wrote with some
“Jane!”
bell to ring below; I listened for Leah coming up with a message; I
find I have fallen into no great absurdity, I shall try to forgive you;
apparent texture like that of a mummy. When he heard the sound of my
and perhaps he prejudiced his father against him. The old gentleman was
“Laughing and talking, sir.”
it! Do ye mind how we stood like this in the Chalk Walk when I
      uneasiness had been equally excited with my own; our coincidence
      her. Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing

developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men concerned
chopped off the branch and set the little dog free.
do it, I was disposed to obey. I put down my muff on the stile, and
committee on my behalf, and which she had framed and glazed.
all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had

room. He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the

His movements—he was on foot all the time—were afterward traced to
lean to the ideal, and your society has at least been amongst the
There came a knock at the door, and the butler entered with a laden

struck twelve. The superintendent rose—
should never have had the nerve to carry it out.”
had not been used to regular occupation of any kind. I felt it would be

entertain solemn doctrines about the angelic nature of children, and
promised to get them in behind the scenes and introduce them to some
old-fashioned in my ideas, but women run around too much these days to
until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my
one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have
      parcels placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After
visiting your own land?”
of ivory and gold. The curves of your lips rewrite history.” The

      her father would never consent to her going.
year I may have the pleasure of wishing long life and happiness to Mr
      her way. Since the ——shire were first quartered in Meryton,
      instead of a ceremonious card. Jane pictured to herself a happy
As soon as she could do so Lucetta left him, nodded and smiled to
heart.’”
shoulder): “this young girl, who stands so grave and quiet at the mouth
highly, cannot stimulate me to continued care and foresight.”
Perhaps it was not so reckless, after all. It was simply inevitable. We
merry-making when saying good-night in the hall, the pleasure of the
the cards. “Ah! never mind,” she said. “I’ll lie here while you sit by
finding that they were compelled to meet stealthily, he forced her to
wonderful place; but I have never been permitted to see the Great Oz,
“Beside her mother,” said Henchard, in the same stolid tones.
late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
going to sell me that car?”
short-handed, sir; so we pushed our Gover’ment staves up this
room; the door was ajar: I could both listen and watch. Adèle claimed
sent abroad into the world for my destruction. I was possessed by a
for a policeman.
She sat down, glanced searchingly at Miss Baker and then at me, and
of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour
cynical indifference personal to himself, showing its presence even in
“I beg your pardon, it is the literal truth: he asked me more than
“I came across this book by accident,” said the old man. “It just
black hair and whiskers were the same as ever, but a film of ash was


to your destruction and infallible misery. Learn from me, if not by my

carry to church.

milkmaid had a nick in her left elbow.

of the world was now within my grasp. Not that, like a magic scene, it
and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far; beyond the
Turning, he saw a circular disc reticulated with creases, and
      was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his
tawny moustache did not quite cover an unamiable mouth. His cheekbones
CHAPTER VII
“Perhaps you have read the figures wrong—it may be two thousand!”




the river, and at last came upon their friend the Lion, lying fast
games of all sorts would take place here; and set to work a little
overflowing with sweet inundation all the field I have so carefully and

      her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they took
up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native
will demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits

idiot, however, would have succumbed now. I had dared and baffled his
account myself. But, my dear Frankenstein,” continued he, stopping

stay for supper? I wouldn’t be surprised if some other people dropped

Ignatius Gallaher slapped his friend sonorously on the back.

stood on the table. “It must be, if you say it. And now I am off.
      I will visit her.’ Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair

poor, and plain.’
painful shame or damping humiliation. He loved me so truly, that he
      to you than I can express.” Charlotte assured her friend of her
“Oh, it is not thus—not thus,” interrupted the being.
yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as
      “But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must

and dined sumptuously.
She turned her head as there was a light dignified knocking at the
opinion so harsh, and inclined rather to the more refined idea that
      “Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Darcy,
      air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike to the
not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither
madly with his stick. The driver laughed and whipped up. He laughed in
tragic light.
only a fancy of mine. This unfortunate accident has upset me. I have a
      hurried back in alarm, supposing by the servant’s account that
      by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister’s

“No, but you tried to,” she retorted. “You are nothing but a big

CHAPTER IV
board and lodging, and thirty pounds a year besides. I’ll furnish my
it. I listened to Mr. Rochester’s narrative, but made no disclosure in
no great importance to the incident—the cheerful souls at the Three

the corn of those who had been holding back at less price than my first
about the country like butcher’s meat; and for my part I can well
Henry VIII., on his way to the Tower previous to his coronation, as
“Well, I had a reason. ’Twill out one day. I wish it could have been in
took it from my hand, held it up, and surveyed the bed, all blackened
instrument. I have myself—I tell it you without parable—been a worldly,
distant from where I had to pass; the moth apparently engaged him. “I
the middle of the gravel-walk. This figure, too, was reading; but not
boisterous the settles would rock and overturn without some such
one, too savage to be driven, which had in some way escaped, the staff
wonder, “but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery. No
held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped her
forty now. This one is little more than a boy. Thank God, I have not

had come between them. Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck,
“But Toto!” said the girl anxiously. “What will protect him?”
that the Rubicon was passed; and that the trial, no longer to be
the bottom of the long room, on the hearth; for there was a fire at

      marriage. You could scarcely escape discredit and misery. My
Arms Hotel, the Market House, St. Peter’s churchyard wall, ascending to
rivet the spell.
feet.

      send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me
poverty; they think of the word only as connected with ragged clothes,
      him, _he_ was the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of
and, having drawn the red moreen curtain nearly close, I was shrined in

of his prosperity, when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin! He seems
“Partly because it is his nature—and we can none of us help our nature;
light at the bridge which stood at the end of High Street he beheld
crowd. Like illumined pearls the lamps shone from the summits of their
“I cannot think of leaving you, sir, at so late an hour, in this
and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars. What of the second Lord
there.
by the others.
when I see a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her
picture carried to the top of the house for me. It is rather heavy, so
It was centrally situate, as such places should be, and bore about the
      you liked me against your will, against your reason, and even
ever seen. They were not as big as the grown folk she had always been
thick body, and hurried into the room.
am come back to you.”
bind all that he had in his nature—the rover, the aspirant, the poet,
the Mayfair balls and Pall Mall club windows, who copied him in
feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another.

come to second thoughts on such. But I—”
“All right, Dorian. I dare say I shall see you to-morrow at tea-time.
the dim lights of small Wisconsin stations moved by, a sharp wild
Human life—that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating.
      satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere
wimbles creaked; while the scales and steel-yards began to be busy
“And are you comfortable at the inn?”

upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon

      Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most
had been used to disappear. High-Place Hall could boast of its


listened to him—that I observed the countenance of Felix was
or her husband credit for large-heartedness.
to quarrel with you. I have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect
      impatient to see him.”
there is something in your words which persuades me that you are
woman’s father to consent to her marriage with her lover. But the old
spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to
and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.’
desist, and ran from me uttering execrations, and vowing I had burst




but a dependent like myself. I did not like her the worse for that; on

schoolboys of fifteen. It is true that I have thought more and that my
chimney; shame in some bow-windows; theft (in times of privation) in

want, child, and why is that great Lion with you?”
advantage to purpose; but he was already with his mama. I heard him in
lady looked in at the corn-yard gates as she passed them, and paused on
feel proud, terribly proud. Mother, did you love my father as I love

Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of
XXXIII.

I remembered the answer of the old housekeeper at the parsonage, when I

Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her
I entered the room where the corpse lay and was led up to the coffin. How
“If I could do that, simpleton, where would the danger be? Annihilated
“They say the Three Mariners, just below here, is a very good place,”
and barren obscurity. Tremble lest in that case you should be numbered
Next morning, Miss Scatcherd wrote in conspicuous characters on a piece
worship Madame de Ferrol in this ridiculous way, I shall have to marry
trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with
Left alone, I walked to the window; but nothing was to be seen thence:

and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than
      her family, not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had
smile and nod his head twice or thrice. Sometimes he used to put me
history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the
you. Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the
Céline, Giacinta, and Clara.”
      frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely
to the front, and my master was pacing the pavement, Pilot following

“Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of
contentedly alone—I used to rush into strange dreams at night: dreams
He got up on the car. As it drove off he raised his hat to her gaily.
must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it. He
murmuring voice and I wondered why it smiled continually and why the
sunken from its plane, its gray rents held together here and there by a
“Yes, Bessie,” said I, after I had kissed her; “and I trust I am not
his comforter—his pride; his redeemer from misery, perhaps from ruin.

possible.”

Donald showed his deep concern at a complication so far beyond the
elbows on it, clasping hands. When Paddy Leonard said _“Go!”_ each was
recall him to a theme which was of necessity one of close and anxious
should not be so mad as to run to him? I cannot tell—I am not certain.
tastes and habits resemble Diana’s and Mary’s; your presence is always
then been observed by Elizabeth. Nothing is so painful to the human mind as
“Well,” said Gabriel, “if it comes to that, you know, Irish is not my
“She assures me so, Lady Narborough,” said Dorian. “I asked her
by the way of a back lane westward, avoiding the front street; guessing
      while she staid with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane’s letter
than many other things that might have happened. After a few minutes,
               General Resolves
door in the wall to the suddenly changed scene of the garden and
in his ears. He began to doubt the reality of what memory told him. He
“If you see any house, or any place where we can pass the night,” she

the following story:
attentions appropriated by a great lady, who scorned to touch me with
escaping them. The only thing she could say was, “I was a poor girl
He called out:
late it had been easy enough for me to look sad: a cankering evil sat

were compassed round by a very thick fog. We accordingly lay to,

      “It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey
“Jane, I ever like your tone of voice: it still renews hope, it sounds
      perfect indifference, continued to express her admiration of
table.

      every idea was superseded by Lydia’s situation, hastily
not without culture.

beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears. I tell you,
Science_. He wrote seldom in the sheaf of papers which lay in his desk.
Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. “She’ll give you a letter of
would make him her husband, so she took him to her ruby palace and used
      surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality
      deceives us. Women fancy admiration means more than it does.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
name.
      from so ill-judged a direction of talents; talents, which,
employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be

“Ah—now I’ll go and get ye an umbrella,” he said.

      _right_, but I was not taught to correct my temper. I was given

while but listened, with an air of calm enmity, while his friends

      of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.”
“I was born in Omaha—”
Proclaiming vengeance sore:
sort of sin. I want to be better. I am going to be better. Tell me

hurricane—the howling darkness—and stood before me: the cloak that
accustomed halting-place with him now. Here he spent a long time, the
When Mrs Kearney arrived with her daughter at the Antient Concert Rooms

come to some place.”
      circumstance been delayed a day!
      Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her
      or pain bore the greatest share. The vague and unsettled
“’Tis the Scotch gentleman,” said the landlady omnisciently; and
more. I took their word for all that they averred, and I became their
their rooms in high spirits. Even Dorothy had hope that “The Great and
Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured
earth, the fine incessant needles of water playing in the sodden beds.
“His daughter’s, I think.”
      have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way
climb over the wall.”
considerably lessened the spring to his stride, that his state of
side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor
manner, and we walked towards my college. Clerval continued talking for
“Cursed, cursed creator! Why did I live? Why, in that instant, did I
of wishing for her notice. But he was far from attractive to a woman’s


      Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters. With what
      though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her
bitterest temper!”
As I walked along in the sun I remembered old Cotter’s words and tried
The tempting prospect of putting to the blush people who stand at the

previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant
Basil Hallward’s compliments had seemed to him to be merely the
“I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory.”
The cars came scudding in towards Dublin, running evenly like pellets

of your own meanness.
expanded to the cheerful firelight. While the driver and Hannah brought


day’...._ Go on! What day? _‘Hardly had the day dawned’...._ Have you
A ghostly light from the street lamp lay in a long shaft from one
nought; but if not, depart, depart, and leave me in darkness.”
movements and the secure position of his feet upon the lawn suggested
“Ah,” said the Tin Woodman sadly, “I wish I had a heart to beat.”
news. “But I’ve not been far tonight, so perhaps—”

Mr. Rochester lay stretched motionless, in deep sleep.

possible shape. Why they stared at her so helplessly, as if waiting for
      temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
“Yes, she is alive; and more sensible and collected than she was. The
and the birth of pink cheeks her skin had grown more sensitive to the
white taper fingers, shuddering slightly in spite of himself, and
      all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into
that her sister had been into no mischief whatever. She convinced

loungers stood about with their hands in their pockets. Everything was
thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear follows up and
“Do you mean to say,” he asked, “that you are completely isolated from
Rivers, I have been _so_ gay during my stay at S——. Last night, or
      the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have

a little emotion going in her at the time. “How you change!” she said.


likely to make? I could not tell—I did not know his taste in female
as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the
having already lost commercial buoyancy from rash transactions, the
“Is there a place in this neighbourhood called Thornfield?” I asked of
full-length portrait of a young man of extraordinary personal beauty,


“Oh, you want too much!” she cried to Gatsby. “I love you now—isn’t
Buzzford, and their fellows. But they knew nothing of the secret;
mistake. His shape, now divested of cloak, I perceived harmonised in
nervous circuit of the house half an hour before—and ran for a huge
      than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as
will speak to me now.”
we will have no more deefficulties at all.”
“I will; and you shall hear how poor the proposal is,—how trivial—how
“But surely she did?”

“No—that is the best of it,” he said. And if I had loved him less I

      Elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and
      what will make me happy—your affection, and the invariable
time inclined your ear to gossip about the mysterious lunatic kept
Don’t talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn’t talk about a thing, it
among them. I sought Mr. Mason, delivered the message, and preceded him
“He was.”

      Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.
“You see she is yet young; you observe she possesses the ordinary form
would not have understood me.”
She was then conducted to the first floor on the landing, and left to
“Yes. I think of home sometimes!” he said simply.
He wanted nothing less of Daisy than that she should go to Tom and
      felicity! You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to
      felt the smallest interest, and from none received either
signal, and the Corporation in their robes proceeded from the front of
      “It did. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had
      return home in ten days time. He sat with them above an hour, and
Her body asserted itself with a restless movement of her knee, and she
sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a
mystery. He would love that, he said, better than anything in this
caught that haggard look upon her face for a moment when she was
those pallid, jade-faced painters of Tokyo who, through the medium of

and rubbing each other lovingly as they waited in patience to be
“Well; and then?” asked Gabriel.
returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a
boxed both my ears, and then left me without a word. Bessie supplied

“Did you have a nice ride?”
and abstracted manner. From time to time the butler filled his glass
you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you
Lucetta took care not to come again among the hay and corn. She would

existed.”
with the pyle till we’d roll over again. ‘Where beest now, dear Joe,
Looked at from a distance, however, the hen resolved itself into a
      “By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried
“Go on,” Gatsby said politely.
“No, Jane,” he returned: “what necessity is there to dwell on the Past,
at the commencement of the lesson, her place had been at the top of the
      “I will not be interrupted. Hear me in silence. My daughter and
disappointed shyness and the tip of her nose nearly met the tip of her
roughly?” I replied. “Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to

and round answers. Very soon you seemed to get used to me: I believe
again without nodding, or smiling, or saying a word.
again, and by long and by late I got here by coach, ten minutes ago.
overhanging sides of Mont Salêve? These reflections determined me, and
soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every
      “Do you prefer reading to cards?” said he; “that is rather
      could his will be disregarded? Why did you not seek legal
“Yes—Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden
      mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be
Then the green man fitted spectacles for the Scarecrow and the Tin
themselves while they were young. Maria agreed with him and favoured
ground with a great clatter.
infinitely less than my personal affairs.
every moment. The blast blew so strong I could not stand. I sat down on
      just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat
accompanist at the four grand concerts.
“Finest specimens of human molars,” he informed me.
try to be civil to a’ folk—no more!”
“Shall I travel?—and with you, sir?”


      Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
you pulled the screen in front of it? Let me look at it. It is the best
mother,” she murmured; “I had none.”
me.”
The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in

“Did you hear it?” I again inquired.
Elizabeth-Jane was quite sure.
I think we all believed for a moment that it had smashed in pieces on
soul-life, and without its hideous warnings, he would be at peace. He
“Don’t be a no’thern simpleton!” said Henchard drily. “This promise

      obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of
counterpane. There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that
which the world-spirit had ever passed, loving for their mere
Palace of Oz, the Great Wizard. There was a soldier before the door,
paternal eye; and a third, to castigate himself with the thorns which
chin—perhaps a little softened, but still imparting an indescribable
      lucky in having such a master.”

There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and


man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one. It

      some news of them.
are cruel and unjust, the wicked people would have it all their own
“That so?”
“Ah, you have discovered that?” murmured Lord Henry. And they passed
consequence, or something of that sort.”

was put to school. He broke off acquaintance with all the gentry, and
she saw him no more.
from thence to gather promise of new hopes, I was seized by remorse and
It came from the lower end of the table, where there sat a group of

      them both, he had removed with his family to a house about a mile
“Cease that chatter, blockhead! and do my bidding.”
of the house. We will go up by the front staircase, as it is wider.”
one might call it, and the worst of having a romance of any kind is
We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew’s, and


clock, and came in. By some unaccountable shyness, some wish not to
atone—it will atone. Have I not found her friendless, and cold, and

distance.”
you hate me—tease me, vex me; do anything but move me: I would rather
“Didn’t you ask me to come here? Didn’t you write this?” Elizabeth held
She sat down upon the lowest step, and Elizabeth-Jane obeyed her
hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was
what? A little grey and thin on the top—what?”
      not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption,
eyes, “but I am always ready for a new emotion. I am afraid, however,


interval, content.
first, as I listened to that prayer, I wondered at his; then, when it
“Miss Eyre, I repeat it, you can leave me. How often am I to say the
This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. She was only
with. Then she had her plants in the conservatory and she liked looking
and tenantry were thoroughly under her control; her children only at
finding that I should not be happy here?”
thanked her informant, and rejoined Elizabeth, who greeted her with,
setting, whose rays streamed through the narrow window near my crib. I

boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his
His is the ambition of the high master-spirit, which aims to fill a
walls on legs and feet shaped like those of an elephant, and on one lay

And why weep for this? No fear of death will darken St. John’s last
velvet. She seized on these days for her periodical visits to the spot

rested on Romeo. The few words she had to speak—
at least. “‘He that observeth the wind shall not sow,’ so the Preacher
after them. She had lovely ferns and wax-plants and, whenever anyone
whilst—bound to marry me?”

world a demoniacal enemy? Peace, peace! Learn my miseries and do not seek
of bread snatched from my lips, and my drop of living water dashed from
      explained:
about you, and, kindling in pure, powerful flame, fuses you and me in

“Well, he certainly must have strained himself to get this menagerie
wither, but they blossom again. The laburnum will be as yellow next
      The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart,
Corley ran his tongue swiftly along his upper lip.
stockade of limes and chestnuts, set in the midst of miles of rotund
      strangers.”
even annoyed at discovering in myself a sensation of freedom as if I
to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads.”



      visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed
I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire
took possession of a cold chicken, a roll of bread, some tarts, a plate

prison-ground, exile limits. I traced the white road winding round the
that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire. It was


opinion, when she knows all that I know! Just put your hand in mine,
mother deliberately.
Daylight began to forsake the red-room; it was past four o’clock, and
roadway and back again. Corley was the son of an inspector of police
elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own. A selfish
failed in its task, and the young man’s steps died on his ear.


Henchard did not answer, and they went on till they had reached his
have? I’m taking whisky: better stuff than we get across the water.
the last best? Oh, had you but lived a few years earlier, what a


old gentleman thought he’d like to drive out with the quality to a
to this white girl and bowed in worship before her. To a large extent
hurry to listen to explanations; she hauled me to the washstand,
afterwards lifted out Adèle, I entered the house, and made good my
      about it. I promised them so faithfully! What will Wickham say?

the room. It seems they had come in the carriage with their reverend
“I don’t like you so well as I have done sometimes, indeed, sir. Did it
death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder. I did not
      supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his

promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the dæmon’s

his other arm. After three weeks she had found a wife’s life irksome
the consoling proximity of millionaires—all for eighty dollars a
nursing her last-born, and Robert and his sister played quietly in a
written whilst I thought your conduct to me cruel; but now I know more
person had become emaciated with confinement. Sometimes, on the very
her improvement, she soon forgot her little freaks, and became obedient

“As you called it.”
He knew that Mary Jane must be near the end of her piece for she was
      “You are a good girl;” he replied, “and I have great pleasure in
garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her
place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present
They then entered into specific details of the process by which this

XIV.
absolute separation from her he loved should be involved in these
Jane, I see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion
Henchard’s part, unquestionably, that it should be through the door.
he is at rest. The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever.
      “Oh, no!” said Elizabeth. “In essentials, I believe, he is very
      would return Mr. Bennet’s visit, and determining when they should
had Henchard been her father in nature, this father in early

      rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait
“He just saw the opportunity.”
Mrs Kearney found occasion to say to some friend:

silence that reigned as evening declined at nightfall, I took
      “_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said

      different feelings.
aloud to him as he went out of the gate, “Here—Abel Whittle!”

would scrupulously observe) and know that the spirit was quite absent?
familiarly by the name of cousin. No word, no expression could body
for instance, am but dust and ashes. With St. Paul, I acknowledge

you somewhere before.”

He bowed to Lady Ingram, as deeming her the eldest lady present.

their share of human secrecy to the casual watcher in the darkening
brain, or some white nerve in the body, delighting in the conception of
not—renounce his wild field of mission warfare for the parlours and the
Mr Power and Mr Fogarty. Mr M’Coy had tried unsuccessfully to find a
shaken at the collar by him as a vagabond in the face of the whole
      known anything of the matter.

of afternoon, and now I turned my head as though I had been warned of
itself—something that would breed horrors and yet would never die. What
told me to hold out my hand. I did. She approached her face to the
mouth is only painted, and if I should cut a hole in it so I could eat,

      honoured father always gave me much uneasiness, and since I have
      hints, when this desirable event takes place, as to the advantage

and lustres, such lighting of fires in bedrooms, such airing of sheets
      immediately running into the other, told the girls what an honour
might close over me and my calamities for ever. But I was restrained,
opened a blue field in the sky, and rode in it watery bright: he took



picture of the balcony scene in _Romeo and Juliet_ hung there and
“Well, all the girls here have lost either one or both parents, and
      Hertfordshire; and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr.
tell of yourself, but to listen while others talk of themselves; they
and long days make such a difference; and then, just at the
accustomed; it did not oppress me much. I leant against a pillar of the
pocket-book a five-pound note, which he put in the envelope with the
“He’s just a man named Gatsby.”
“I wish somebody would,” said she firmly. “Her present owner is not at
and her convenience. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is



her mother’s letter that his own child had died; that, in the second
pudden inside. I’ve been a wife, and I’ve been a mother, and I never

breath. So she had had that romance in her life: a man had died for her
to contemplate. She finally resolved to undertake the search without
as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own.

King’s Arms.

coach, where I had placed it for safety; there it remains, there it


The Dainty China Country
betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy? I could not sustain the
violently that, fearing another collapse on her part, he bade her
when they came into contact with her heavily beaded eyelashes they
      the officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to


She thought she would have to stand in the Drumcondra tram because none
trees, so when a young man at the office suggested that we take a
And there was the silence of death about it: the solitude of a lonesome

part of womanliness.
      they who are good-natured when children, are good-natured when
to Samuel Wakely’s tune, as improved by me?”
bent of nature; but that it may be done, I know from experience. God
Blanche and Mary. They were all three of the loftiest stature of women.




he handed the bonds over the counter. They got a circular from New

not. When fate wronged me, I had not the wisdom to remain cool: I
if they seek to do more or learn more than custom has pronounced
inquired politely for Mr Kernan, placed his gift on the table and sat
“We will go home through the wood: that will be the shadiest way.”
      feelings are not only cordial towards _him_; they are even
weary alike of the eyes of strangers and of her master’s hands. One
powerless to realise.”

Harry,” said the old gentleman, “what brings you out so early? I
said:
      their sisters’, and when nothing better offered, a walk to
      eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but
was more than he could have expected. His wife had behaved kindly to
the room with a look and air at once shy and independent: you were
“Yes, Hannah—a far larger country than England, where they talk in no
ran to and fro; they crowded together: some sobbed, some stumbled: the
he was married. I said he was engaged to be married. There is a great
“Mind you, I noticed there was something queer coming over him
impassive and waited for his orders. Dorian lit a cigarette and walked
would break her still sound repose. She seemed the emblem of my past

countenance of a woman who had attempted murder, and whose intended
We had arrived in England at the beginning of October, and it was now
the raised sashes. The belfry of George’s Church sent out constant

almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me even
I expect nothing more.”

suddenly commenced chattering fluently.
eternal justice of man! Yet I ask you not to spare me; listen to me,

knew nothing about them, that he had made a faithful copy. The tirade

Sibyl had to lie down for a couple of hours before acting. Jim insisted
little coarse, the dark one not a little fierce, the foreigner harsh
him, and there wasn’t a girl in London at the time who wasn’t after
“I’ve sent on my luggage—though it isn’t much; for the voyage is long.”
As he said this, he released me from his clutch, and only looked at me.
some gold-wrought Indian fabric, invested her (I suppose she thought)
uncovered his face and rose. The congregation rose also and settled
“Daisy, that’s all over now,” he said earnestly. “It doesn’t matter
Meanwhile Donald Farfrae prospered. He had purchased in so depressed a
missed that train, and then another, before I could get myself away.

old alignment gave a blurred air to her face. When she moved about
terrible than that fancied degradation from which, in their ignorance,
Such was the state of things when the current affairs of Casterbridge
      allowed to invite them.”
entertained, and that a lamb-like submission and turtle-dove

possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support

and—well—a little in summer just sometimes, and a ‘gaberlunzie’ or two
after.” With an effort her wit rose faintly. “We’ll meet you on some
wife, and widow, these nine-and-thirty years, and in that time have
should not retard it a single hour.
      I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear Lydia not
Pok! The cork flew out of Mr Hynes’ bottle, but Mr Hynes remained
I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with
      greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence, and
cordiality of fellow-feeling; the servants would have been less prone

with rising distress.
district; I felt we were in a different region to Lowood, more
would have spoken to each other without any introduction. I am sure of
      Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great
then walked out. It was now dusk. He soon saw that the tendency of all
“He wrote it himself, sir, as he stood outside the window.”

Gray’s understudy from the Follies. The party has begun.
precipitately from his control. Instinct made him step on the
      “Good Heaven! can it be really so! Yet now I must believe you,”
choice of helpers: she is forced to put up with such crusty people as
life and under the shadow of the gaunt spectral mansions in which the
joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place—that he used


“I sometimes think,” he added, “that he must have some glass that he
His mind became active again. He wondered had Corley managed it
an indefinite procession of shadows, who rouged and powdered in an
Everybody looked at Henchard. His face seemed strange, and in tint as
      that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely

Down the stream the raft floated, and the poor Scarecrow was left far
strange to her; but from what everybody said, and from what she had

bread-and-cheese to Nance Mockridge, who worked in the yard wimbling
cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene
dreaded lest she should talk till it was all burnt out; fortunately,
profusely in its recesses; unnumbered varieties of moss filled its
man is said to be worth so much a minute, he’s a man to be considered!”
      address, while he claimed their relationship, would have

thither, and make inquiries about the patient every now and then. He

      observation; whatever were the case, though her opinion of him

cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of
He went secretly and alone, not a soul of the many who had known him
for its contents being original; but don’t pass your word unless you
“Afterwards, take a piece of smooth ivory—you have one prepared in your
the shrill intrusive light, was sitting in the one arm-chair that their
I felt glad as the road shortened before me: so glad that I stopped
all, I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled.
“I didn’t know how to reach you.”
 Chapter 10
      certain and immediate, which _she_ had looked forward to as
was lying. He hurried the phrase “educated at Oxford,” or swallowed
thought instantly revived.
necessary knowledge was not comprised in the noble art of book-keeping;
“No: I am too thirsty to eat. Will you let me have another cup?”

power of pleasing him? _You_ of importance to him in any way? Go! your

porter with her, for her private solace, in her own gloomy, upper
      “I confess,” said he, “that I should not have been at all
came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
professional families the subjects of discussion were corn,

home —the sublime shapes of the mountains, the changes of the seasons,

      her story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so
“During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for

yellow light of the moon, as it forced its way through the window
“Please make yourselves comfortable while I go to the door of the
  Chapter 3
waiting which was a transfixture. But Elizabeth-Jane did not come.
“I gazed on my victim, and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish
      Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against
was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations....
the graceful neck, the dark eyes and black ringlets were all there;—but

“Stop, Jim!” she exclaimed. “You must not say anything against him. I
lose their equanimity on his account. On the fourth morning he was

their hind legs in the street, in which position they occasionally
her happy. If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet,

on, uttered in rather a drawling tone: and accompanied by sundry
better. How do people do to get a new place? They apply to friends, I
It was a novel without a plot and with only one character, being,

revealed before the veil was drawn away. Sometimes this was the effect
“Mr. Rochester, I may as well mention another matter of business to you
to admittance under any roof in England.”

like any other English school-girl; perhaps rather better than some,
I heard was the farmer saying, ‘How do you like those ears?’
“He was probably bumming his way home. He told me he was president of
foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. He felt a terrible
gaze now, which told that intention, and not diffidence, had hitherto
“The books?”
      have now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my
accounted it a pity that so fine and talented a young man should have
“When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first
      must learn some of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its
of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that
      were employing her. She expected every moment that some of the

The message was taken down, and she heard the door close.
region? Does it exist?” And I clasped my arms closer round Helen; she
Taking my hat from the chandelier, I followed.
“They’re all good men,” said Mr Cunningham, “each in his own way. The
tables that ran down the tent on each side. At the upper end stood a
off like that when we were all in raptures listening to you.”
into it. The machine was painted in bright hues of green, yellow, and
      “As to her _younger_ daughters, she could not take upon her to
“And yet St. John is a good man,” said Diana.

“I am not fond of the prattle of children,” he continued; “for, old
your chin most unpleasantly; draw it in.” “Burns, I insist on your
can’t read writing; so I don’t know what it is. I can get it and show

hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had
and spoke with a certain authority: she had a will, evidently. It was
room by herself, and then those who wish to consult her must go to her
I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you
with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall
      two.
how bracing the air was down there, how hospitable the monks were and

      to lay all the ill-consequences of Lydia’s flight on her own
“It’s a blue car, a coupé.”


love! O love!”_ many times.
the telephone rang in her house and excited young officers from Camp
      “But, depend upon it, Mr. Collins,” she added, “that Lizzy shall
“I should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to
I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby’s bedroom, a grey, florid
Then a head showed itself over the rock and the same voice said, “This
impossible for me to tell; but something had caught his eye. He took it
wretched sister, and also in a dog-like attachment he once bore me),

I did as I was bid, though I would much rather have remained somewhat
if I wanted to retch off.”

away from the scent of the flowers, he sleeps on and on forever. But
of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and
collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on
gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness. How sweet is
stopped, probably thinking that the suit might be progressing.

“‘I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner. Any
surface—the temper which, artificially intensified, had banished a wife
“Don’t bring Tom.”
      of unreasonable admiration. The officers of the ——shire were in

her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it
to secure it. I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use the
      at first that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it could


want it, and I really do.”
      “It is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think

office window, but this morning it seemed harsh and dry.
casual disfigurements that resulted from the straitened circumstances
“Yes; she would certainly have been found dead at the door in the
nobody could go, without having a dish of Mrs. Goodenough’s furmity. I
“The old Metropole,” brooded Mr. Wolfshiem gloomily. “Filled with
boxes and other effects from his late lodgings to Lucetta’s house. The
lounging thereon Mother Cuxsom and Nance Mockridge.
“You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was
“Will you take my arm, sir?” he said; “there is a heavy shower coming
“How provoking!” exclaimed Miss Ingram: “you tiresome monkey!”
      an hour ago.”
in their school.

visit to the house since he had lived there as owner. The ring of the
“What, me!” I ejaculated, beginning in his earnestness—and especially
      than my due.”

      it, to consult the wishes of the present party; I am much
hospitable orders respecting the driver; this done, both followed me.

further path, and the power of meriting the kindness which seemed so
series of pure disappointments than in a series of substitutions.
“I could only get one cab,” he said.
“How shall we get down?” asked Dorothy.
Aunt Em had just come out of the house to water the cabbages when she
slaves.”
      said Jane: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His


looking a little, not much, younger—with a cricket bat in his hand.

dialogue.
till the bridge seemed moving backward with him.

  Chapter 9
voice.
have been a meet emblem of my mind when I accused and menaced Mrs.
house. If at breakfast or dinner Elizabeth-Jane’s mother inadvertently
been telling Gabriel on the stairs and at the same time rubbing the
like coals of fire on my head! I am a monied person now. Surely I can
      eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and
The piece ended with a trill of octaves in the treble and a final deep
with hunger on the causeway of a hamlet. Had I nothing about me I could
less so of selling the eggs to the housekeeper and hoarding up the
“And what business have you here?” she continued. “It is not your
that to know their properties one had to sicken of them. There were
      better. Not that I care about it, though. He is nothing to us,
behind.
      bad cold, and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves;
aërial lace and glistening satin, graceful scarf and golden rose; call

      to be rationally founded, because they had for basis the

      Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth

them with pride and affection, still cherish in our hearts the memory
educated in a big Catholic college and had afterwards sent him to
recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest
blue cars—the cars of their friends, the French.

face, as soon as she recognized her friend, shaped itself into
nicely his hair was cut, and the sort of velvet-pile or down that was
Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich—places which I had heard
rich house, into her rich, full life, leaving Gatsby—nothing. He felt
      honour of her hand, but in vain. Elizabeth was determined; nor

golden buckles on their shoes; and princes with jeweled crowns upon
that was to lift the foundation of this friendship was at that moment
      them both in misery of the acutest kind.”
vacancy in the list of aldermen; and that Farfrae was likely to become
its gloom; and his face flushed—olive cheek and hueless forehead
“Mr. Rochester would be glad if you and your pupil would take tea with
have played a duet together—three duets, I believe. I don’t know what

negative. Once she said she had actually put the question to Mr.




“Ah! you must suit your frock to his flowers, Gladys.”
the pale, chastened mother who walked by her side. Her conjectures on
and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any
“On to the leads; will you come and see the view from thence?” I
“Silence!” ejaculated a voice; not that of Miss Miller, but one of the
Little Chandler shook his head.
through the room and came back; he stooped towards me as if to kiss me;

      He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not
the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave, for
revolved it slowly, tracing, like the leg of transit, a thin red

      headache, there is not much the matter with me.—Yours, &c.”

CHAPTER XXIII

“All I want now is to look at life. You may come and look at it with

piano and then glanced at the girl, who was folding his overcoat
 Chapter 9
This at once suggested to Henchard that the transaction of his early
task, his full-toned voice swells in my ears; his lustrous eyes dwell on me
rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to
will, doubtless, if I regulate my mind, and exert my powers as I ought,
      so ill of him. Many circumstances might make it more eligible for
lay down, unscared, enlightened—eager but for the daylight.
will probably be in the same state one day. My father and my brother
I was going to bring back all such things into my life and become
      am sure I know not; but his excessive distress will not allow him
him to stay. I insist upon it.”
The car drove off towards Westmoreland Street. As it passed Ballast
      more strange. She could only imagine, however, at last, that she
presence. An unusual—to me—a perfectly new character I suspected was
      Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the


      “No—why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
“She might have the decency not to telephone him at dinner time.
had come at last, and yet she felt no terror. Indeed, in some measure
sallow, and that he sat so near the hearth, and wore a surtout in the
on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain,
down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black
from over her eyes and looked back at us with a brilliant smile. Mr.
temples, but those at the back of his head were nearly black. His person
      the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of
No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like
“O, of course, nothing wrong, you know. Only sometimes, they say, he
eating her bread.
fragilely bound into the house by French windows at either end. The
inflict or bestow—that their airs gave me no concern either for good or
“You are too inquisitive, St. John,” murmured Mary in a low voice; but
know love’s tragedies.” And Lord Henry struck a light on a dainty

make up for all you’ve suffered, by partaking without stint—why, it


movement. Newson waited, and Henchard waited—if that could be called a
preferred her to any one else at Gateshead Hall.
useless. You hear now how I contradict myself. I, who preached

“Ah, childer!” said she, “it fair troubles me to go into yond’ room

      really, considering his descent, one could not expect much

The room disclosed was prettily furnished as a boudoir or small
“It’s hame, and it’s hame, hame fain would I be,
      left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended
interval. Mrs Kearney said:
Dorian rose up from the piano and passed his hand through his hair.

his back door in a pyramid of pulpless halves. There was a machine in
best friend. No one has ever understood me as you have.”
deny that I grieved for his grief, whatever that was, and would have
      friends—whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them, is

      Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the
“I am always telling him so, Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry with a
merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or
remorse, and you pronounced remorse the poison of existence.”
      “I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he,
them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite

that the idea was monstrous. Besides, even if he did confess, who would
Dorian Gray shook his head. “No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful
to ye by associations, or particularly suited to your use. And take
judged by their snarling and growling that they were in great trouble.


A sod covers his gentle form, and he knows no pain. He can no longer
Elizabeth-Jane had apprehended the singer in a moment, and looked
Marble Arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people
my tears watered the boards. I had meant to be so good, and to do so

“And so have I, sir,” I returned, putting my hands and my purse behind
heath to the north of Anglebury, a prominent feature of which, in the
except one of light grey, which, in my Lowood notions of the toilette,

the house, intending to wait by the gate.
“What oath?”


aspirations and these regrets? It would be difficult to say: I could
It grieved Farfrae much to give up this scheme. But a damp having been
      am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving
would have done she did not, and the evil that she would not, that she


and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence. I knelt on the grass

Having descended a staircase, traversed a portion of the house below,
your crime was discovered, you could scarcely look more aghast.”
car. “I’ll take you in this circus wagon.”
In another moment I was within that apartment. There was every article

he was quite a young man still, and quickly kindled to enthusiasm by
      Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and
Chapter 8
      Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their
suddenly overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the moment of
answered few questions in class. I watched my master’s face pass from
dreamed in Eton or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of
smashed on the pavement.”
English ladies, French countesses, Italian signoras, and German
yet. But the whole was grown over with grass, which now, at the end of
clouds, the winds, the trees, and grass, the candle-flame and swallows,
      favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in.”
“But I thought all witches were wicked,” said the girl, who was half


to love me.”
Lucetta covered her eyes with her right hand, as if she could plead no

      so ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think
mellow, I strolled down Madison Avenue past the old Murray Hill Hotel,

(uttered in his undulatory accents, and with an appraising, pondering
fluctuations of feeling, and continual combats with recollections and

      With the mention of Derbyshire there were many ideas connected.
steps that makes pleasant dancers.... I fear I offended your father by

“Quite,” said she.

dumb sign, mute token.

She kissed me, and I her, and we both soon slumbered.


breathed again: my blood resumed its flow. Fully assured by these words

As the painter looked at the gracious and comely form he had so
further end touched the ground footsteps entered upon it, and there
And while he was helping himself she said:
veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression. Her
opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great


cordially, such bloom and light and bliss rose to your young, wistful
“I’ve seen it all,” said Jopp.
“Sit up!” said she; “don’t annoy me with holding the clothes fast. Are
Her mind dwelt upon nothing else but the stranger, and the house, and

the sun sets, and you cannot fail to find her.”
“The new manager!—he’s in his office,” said Henchard bluntly.
no matter what hyprocrisy it involved.
I that evening shut my eyes resolutely against the future: I stopped my
jauntiness about her movements as if she had first learned to walk

wonderful thing than art.”
then said—
sure he would soon marry this very lady—because I read daily in her a
that you are better than he is. You are not stronger—you are too much

 Chapter 8

conclusion.

      love him. Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly

success of one effort it had been privileged to make, independent of
Burgundy against the light and wondering how it was that he could
happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings. On that night he
The rain cooled about half-past three to a damp mist, through which

from the slit he edged into the tavern by a similar exercise of skill.

Then, being prepared for the journey, they all started for the Emerald

pulled out his watch. It was twenty minutes to two.
they will be a superlatively happy pair. He must love such a handsome,

masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of

      at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking

“My third command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda, “shall be to
o’clock, opening the windows admitted only a gust of hot shrubbery

rather brilliant on my personal defects—deformities she termed them.
shrimp, magnified enormously. Or it might have been likened to an
“While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had
that—she allowed herself the pleasure of feeling fascinated. She
A pause—in which I began to steady the palsy of my nerves, and to feel
She nodded.
paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened
that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of
drawing-room, as I have before observed, was raised two steps above the
      “No, my dear, I think not. I have great hopes of finding him
again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass


and that mind, yet from its sufferings too prone to gloom, needed not
to-morrow she should have half-a-dozen of untidily folded articles
guide: she shut and locked it behind her. There was now visible a house
have an eye for natural beauties, and a good deal of the organ of
      first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but she

“Don’t keep me long; the fire scorches me.”
“‘Twenty years ago’—well, that’s beginning at the beginning; suppose
suspect it is, the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all
I passed up the street, looking as I went at all the houses to the

“Give me a clue.”
blood or vigour of brain.
and livid, rolling over a swollen sea: all the distance was in eclipse;
Everybody who knew them came to it, members of the family, old friends
delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a

year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that’s no
“Produce him—or go to hell.”
there to foreign parts.”
      “All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the
you look: and you are as ignorant of the matter as this cameo head”
      acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his
      concerned in the business? Do clear _them_ too, or we shall be
“Let me have your name, and I will ask Glinda if she will receive you.”
“You know quite well.”
The car ran on merrily with its cargo of hilarious youth. The two

“No; I should not like to belong to poor people,” was my reply.
The morning of the funeral I went up to New York to see Meyer

following the same trade as Henchard, but on a very small scale, had
“Is there a flood?” he cried.
in the middle of a room full of people; and you are such a great girl:

is a fairy tale—a day-dream.”
any rate. He would never again tempt innocence. He would be good.
angel’s crown. I shall expect your clear decision when I return this

Rochester at the house up yonder, Wood; but I daresay you have many a
opened the door and went out on the landing. The house was absolutely
always suffering, always browbeaten, always accused, for ever


did not ask what she meant by “all being over,” but I suppose she
you can! Like it if you dare!’
      relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to
thoughts that will recur to our minds: thoughts of the past, of youth,
      sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with
and there, seeking rest in exile: happiness in pleasure—I mean in
“It was here I first met with Newson—on such a day as this.”
as myself clad in a court-lady’s robe; and I don’t call you handsome,
foam. On weekends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties
for as soon as Casterbridge thought her artful it thought her worth
what’s the matter with you.”
at that moment have experienced true pleasure. But unimpressionable
Men had still quite recently been going in and out with parcels and
      about ten minutes with him in his library. He had entertained
could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow
Grace is eccentric at least. What if a former caprice (a freak very
miles off; he seemed so much disappointed, for he could not stay: he
      impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.
I can quite understand it. Besides, nothing makes one so vain as being

      “Oh! I am not at all afraid of her dying. People do not die of little
      should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia.”
“I suppose Daisy’ll call too.” He looked at me anxiously, as if he
Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
the country of the Winkies she will find you, and make you all her
was in store for the fair face on the canvas. Once, in boyish mockery
labours, performed by an invisible hand, greatly astonished them; and


“No, no, I can see.... Thank you, indeed.”
instant. Mr. Rochester looks as young, and is as young, as some men at
whether in the house or abroad I could not at first tell, but it
afraid, although he was much disappointed.
passions about whose origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most
“You have indeed. She is teachable and handy.” (This then, I thought,
nature. In spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern
Of course it was very fine, she said, but it made her think of poor


      “Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel.
      suit each other? Do you know Mr. Bingley?”
tell me many things I liked to hear: with her my curiosity found
“Carry us over the hill to the country of the Quadlings,” answered the
      ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it
“I think not; and if I were, it does not much signify; I shall never be
was condemned.
      such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane,
the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a strong
more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman. “D—n
“Did he study much?”
fit, and Lucetta walked with it into the front room, Elizabeth
peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
sympathy, forbearance; you have lived, in short, as an independent


cornets and piccolos, and low and high drums. The last swimmers have

her; so I set to work harder than ever. But the girl lived with an old
that morning. He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. The
“Are you then safe—and Elizabeth—and Ernest?”
      with composure.

arrange the cups, spoons, &c., with assiduous celerity. I and Adèle
then entered the chamber. With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments
broke in upon the desultory conversation of the furmity drinkers with,
smiled as of old.


round his neck, saying:

“I grieve to leave Thornfield: I love Thornfield:—I love it, because I
      to say nothing _he_ may not like to hear.”
      scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied, from the
“We are not so unlucky,” said the new ruler, “for this Palace and the

“Can’t you give him the money and let him go? You’ve kept him late
every connection?”
cocktails floated at us through the twilight, and we sat down at a
up, and, a little harrowed myself, I went out into the yard.
The look of Elizabeth betrayed that the latter knew it already.

  Chapter 23


Before them was a great stretch of country having a floor as smooth and

      friend, met her with every appearance of composure. Elizabeth
      of Miss Lydia’s pressing entreaties that they should come in, and

gipsy vagabond; she has practised in hackneyed fashion the science of
“How could it have mattered then?”
with both wings broken, it still quivered its shattered pinions in vain
While Mr Holohan was entertaining the _Freeman_ man Mrs Kearney was

soap-dish when she saw that it was coming to pieces like snow.
wolves.
did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
silent, reserved young man named Boldwood; and the rest responded
This seemed to accord with his desire. He went on in silent thought,
limited excellence at twenty-one that everything afterward savours of
innocence and joy, the other far more dreadfully murdered, with every
The ruin of good men by bad wives, and, more particularly, the

were in the same senior society, and while we were never intimate I

and chopped so well that soon he cleared a passage for the entire
might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me. I
“Sha, ’s nothing,” said Mr Kernan, closing his mouth and pulling the
Henchard thereupon left the field and followed her. His state of mind
was anything more than a common journeyman.



Is it so necessary that I should stop to think of manners and customs?”
marriage with the doctor.
“Good-night, again.”
child’s blindness, added to a student’s thirst for knowledge.
He seemed in doubt how to answer, and the babble without reached them
revealed many of the secrets of religious houses on the Continent and
Little Montenegro! He lifted up the words and nodded at them—with his
case? Tell me, dearest Victor. Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual
night. Tuesday? Are you disengaged Tuesday?”
      want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had

      When the ladies were separating for the toilette, he said to
gold, the largest nugget that had ever been discovered, and bring it
      afraid of speaking openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your
her and the policy of leaving well alone, till he could no longer sit
“What, you have got up!” she said. “You are better, then. You may sit
front of it catches the light.”
“Deeply: he will never forgive me, I fear: yet I offered to accompany
      friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to
it; and when in good health and animated, I can fancy her physiognomy
Lucetta insisted on parting from Farfrae when they drew near the

on a piece of waste. He was a blond, spiritless man, anaemic, and
the foot of man. These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to
and should be treated with respect?”
“These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings. Was
that the concatenation of events this evening had produced was the
As to St. John Rivers, he left England: he went to India. He entered on
thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of
      presentation at St. James’s.
frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve him, but
he could write. He felt that he must slake the thirst in his throat. He
with his coarse fingers. He had just turned round to say something when
      “I hope,” added Mrs. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard
be taken from this life, and admitted to that world to come, where
was hidden in a nameless grave in Selby churchyard. Alan Campbell had
      under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive
      After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject,
Friday morning with bundles of handbills. Special puffs appeared in all


      Collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was
hesitatingly, I felt that last idea to be a mere chimera. Hannah
      affords, exclaiming, “Is not this nice? Is not this an agreeable


“Can’t you see that I’m as hoarse as a crow?” said Mr D’Arcy roughly.
the Scotchman looking at them with a curious interest. The fact that he
“You must speak to the secretary. It’s not my business. I’m a great
Miller’s bed-fellow; she helped me to undress: when laid down I glanced


you actually are, not in the costume of dead ages, but in your own
“That was wrong, Miss Jane.”
operations.
direction of the Three Mariners aforesaid, apparently more concerned
until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have
similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little

The third showed the pinnacle of an iceberg piercing a polar winter
mysteriously to the others.
She went back to her bedroom in a semi-paralyzed state. For very fear
mother, noiselessly pushing open the door with the edge of the tray. To

      from her toilette. The faces of both, however, were tolerably
It is some silly infatuation.”
friendship, that he became deferential, and sat down with a perceptible
corner, whence they watched the bright heap of new hay lying in the
Disasters gather nigh.
feast.”
 XXV
The evening had made me lightheaded and happy; I think I walked into a
me what you have been accustomed to do, and what you _can_ do.”

wrote a literary column every Wednesday in _The Daily Express_, for
arm on the marble mantelpiece: in that attitude his shape was seen
comparatively ridiculous price: for the produce of the previous year,


“I would not make you unhappy for all the world!” exclaimed Dorothy.
the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every
lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad. Yet, after all, what did
such lilacs since the year I met you.”
      certainty that his affection was not the work of a day, but had
daresay you have not much: I have given you no salary yet. How much

      complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of daughters;
Little Chandler sat in the room off the hall, holding a child in his
himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of
sank with dejection: and yet, reader, to tell you all, in the midst of
“By me?” she said, with deep concern. “What have I done?”
      family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much

      _him_. Their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in
“Dear Mrs. Reed,” said I, as I offered her the draught she required,


“I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won’t argue with you. It is only
“Oil my neck, first,” replied the Tin Woodman. So she oiled it, and as
some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being
      he should have nothing to live on.
man, with the instinct of a perverse character, scented it quickly.
      breakfast, he addressed the mother in these words:


in bed, and turn. Hannah had brought me some gruel and dry toast,

      while there were visitors in the house, they could not be
with hay-coloured hair. The gas in the pantry made her look still
encumbered with her. At last he said to himself with satisfaction as he
me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. If
gossip concerning the good people of Geneva. The pretty Miss Mansfield

“To put Adèle to bed: it is past her bedtime.”
      her for the kindness of her hints, they parted; a wonderful
revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget:
      instantly seized the other, and opening it with the utmost
The sense of the supernatural was strong in this unhappy man, and he




keep silent upon it till you are clear off. Who knows but that he may
      natural; and while able to suppose that it cost him a few
dimensions, and furnished in ordinary, modern style.

“Well, drive bang up against Trinity College gates,” said Mr Browne,
      prepossession; her _eldest_ daughter, she must just mention—she
because of the colossal vitality of his illusion. It had gone beyond
at table I remember the candles being lit again, pointlessly, and I
sun; the horizon bounded by a propitious sky, azure, marbled with


Shines that soft, solemn joy;
      called. The respect created by the conviction of his valuable


confidential conversation: she had favoured me with a description of
yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he showed me,
“I thought not. And so you were waiting for your people when you sat on
early, even if they had anything at that place to gi’e thee, which they
It was a serene summer night; the harbour lay like a darkened mirror at


countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life
      pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady
      If Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect
solve them.

“It was a yellow car,” he said, “big yellow car. New.”
      Hertfordshire but what he told himself. As to his real character,
make up your mind to disappointment.”

in me so keen an interest, I had half-forgotten my own wretched
He went back to the dancing pavilion. Farfrae was footing a quaint
by a scanty white fur. There was a heavy odour in the room—the flowers.

“You kiss Nick too.”
sentiments: I must smother hope; I must remember that he cannot care
“Perhaps they’ll be friends again,” murmured the girl.
though of a careworn countenance; hurried in gait and action, like one
tone—“But you are young, Miss; and I should say a light sleeper:
      staying at home.
well remembered the words of my father: “I know that while you are
      “You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that

was naturally pale and unbending in manner she made few friends at
“He says she’ll not be here long.”
course, if Dorothy stays here she will never get back to Kansas.”
“Indeed you _shall_ stay here,” said Diana, putting her white hand on
herself in it, which Lucetta anxiously did.
      fetch her others; all that his library afforded.
lappets, &c., were brought down in armfuls by the abigails; then a
Dorothy came to meet them and thanked the little mice warmly for saving
Elizabeth’s mind ran on acquirements to an almost morbid degree. “You

am much obliged for your kindness in coming round.”
      yesterday se’nnight.”
Chapter 18
“N’est-ce pas, monsieur, qu’il y a un cadeau pour Mademoiselle Eyre
      filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether
      without raising his head, coolly replied:

      The rest of the evening brought her little amusement. She was
with another. A shameful consciousness of his own person assailed him.


disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that. I felt the room
carriage stopped, as I had expected, at the hotel door; my flame (that
“Bles-sed pre-cious,” she crooned, holding out her arms. “Come to your
      over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had
fears are troubling my thoughts.
Church had written books as thick as the _Post Office Directory_ and as
the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over. The



It was indeed the former mistress of the furmity tent—once thriving,
it was frightful!” he added, shuddering. “And I did not expect it: she
When the cook told her everything was ready she went into the women’s


 CHAPTER XX.
doubtless many becks threading their passes. That evening calm betrayed
      the concern of everybody, was well talked over. To Elizabeth,
the Protestant theology on some thorny points and in the end addressed
fingers. She did not answer at once, and the maid repeated the
the grass to let the sun dry him.

behind many layers of glass in a sort of green leather conservatory,
“He becomes very sentimental sometimes,” explained Gatsby. “This is
and made a jest of her belief in my right. After that she was never
results.”
reports next morning.
be my wife, and you limit yourself for ever to a track of selfish ease
Lady Narborough hit him with her fan. “Lord Henry, I am not at all
“What made you ill yesterday?”
all the rest, he called their attention for a moment more. His
of a sex so weak. When he approached her, and before she had spoken a
“and for your sneaking way of getting behind curtains, and for the look

I meant nothing in particular by this remark, but it was taken up in

“I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to
of golden letters and a scarlet robe” the monster could be thrown into
      engagement with Miss de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of
reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it. I had resolved in
with them. They will have a great deal of money, and you will have

would he be guarded. I again nestled to the breast of the hill; and ere
visions of festive treatment at their hands hereafter. Mrs. Stannidge,

Sir Walter Scott and Lord Lytton. I pretended that I had read every
“Why, Miss Eyre, though Mr. Rochester’s visits here are rare, they are
      “Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and
unexpressed, had buoyed me up, that he would claim me at once as his
vanished into the market-house, and both the women glanced towards the
fond of money, and anxious to keep the family estate together. He did
killed the Wicked Witch of the East? Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
      believe he _did_—I heard something about it—but I hardly know
rising to go.

      I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage
with more pomp and circumstance than Louisville ever knew before. He
“Well, I have offered to marry her now that I can; but she won’t marry
“Listen, Tom. If you’re such a snob, why did you invite him to lunch?”
“Three halfpence, sir,” said the girl.
      compliments to them, and much self-gratulation on the prospect of
      yielding; but his answers were at the same time so vague and

sea to sweep my refuse away. I saw Jordan Baker and talked over and
seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms,
you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay.” As I looked up
      for Longbourn, before she told her sister of Mr. Darcy’s


Casterbridge lived by agriculture at one remove further from the



      your sister and Mr. Wickham were, and that he had seen and talked

his looks and faculties hanging on the woman who could boast of a more
provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever-varied powers
      “Oh! yes—I understand you perfectly.”


not the priest, that gives us absolution. When Dorian had finished the
Candle-lights were flitting in and out of her bedroom, and it was
you feel will not leave it till the time of setting. Bitter and base
      take no offence.”
its make. The two watchers had inwardly started at his coming, and
Dorian strolled along by his side. The keen aromatic air, the brown and

marriage to this young girl, and that at the very altar she discovered
his eyes closed for ever, while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed
pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments!
      understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and
naturally enough to wreak vengeance in the name of the law upon the
      may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not
“She’s out at the chapel.”
does the beauties of nature. The starry sky, the sea, and every sight
when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my
There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough

      of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential
      family he had a wife in view, as he meant to choose one of the
      Collins in time.”
Colonel Dent, and others.”
“Jane, come with me to India: come as my helpmeet and fellow-labourer.”
“Bessie, you must promise not to scold me any more till I go.”
      something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
She could do nothing to elucidate this, and decked herself out with a

that bleak place to-day.”
In Sybil’s own room they parted. There was jealousy in the lad’s heart,
he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. I suppose
“Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and
thence by the back door towards the stores and granaries. A light shone
“I cannot tell,” was the answer, “for I have never been to the Emerald
alike the tinkle of the nearest streams, the sough of the most remote.
desire—sober and repressed—of Elizabeth-Jane’s heart was indeed to see,

Long before this time Henchard, weary of his ruminations on the bridge,
      so at once. _My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one

former rebellion. His nature was not changed by one hour of solemn

conceal the artist is art’s aim. The critic is he who can translate
frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a great attachment for her,

to hang between his knees while he looked upon the carpet. “Your

“Here is another space between the trees,” called the Lion.

      returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been
“If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty. She is to be
“See!” he explained. “It went in the ditch.”
side of the country and came to another china wall.

and at first resented her intrusion. “Go away—go away,” he said. “I


      to my sister Gardiner about them directly. Lizzy, my dear, run
      she saw him one morning at his own house, and has since dined
arms and carried her to the door.
did not give it. He seemed not to see her. “Look here, Farfrae,” he
doorway. His black clothes were tightly buttoned on his short body and
      sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural
had lucid intervals of days—sometimes weeks—which she filled up with
safeguard for conduct!”

drawer and spread it out before him.
      Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs.
rolled under surges of joy. I thought sometimes I saw beyond its wild
      comparison with the housekeeper’s room.
to kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a
inferior nature and the wilful hostilities of mankind was very apparent
“I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds
up in it. I see by _The Standard_ that she was seventeen. I should have
all of we work-folk with it; and ’tis better for us than ’twas—though I
work, but it was more than that—I didn’t want to leave Gatsby. I

“Ah, the governess!” he repeated; “deuce take me, if I had not
Modern business methods had spared him only so far as to allow him a
for me;’ and a moment after, went whispering on the wind the
inquiring, “How much longer have he got to suffer from it, Solomon
brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often
and you cannot deny it. _Those_ words did not die inarticulate on your
struggling unhappily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across
      therefore, she could not tell.
one smote me which has humbled me for ever. You know I was proud of my
      “I want to know,” said she, with a countenance no less smiling
Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl’s “I think he

firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had
impressive. A very different sort of mind was hers from that, for
seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew
beautiful big fish and the man in the hotel cooked it for their dinner.

      prodigiously civil! for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the
There were but eight; yet, somehow, as they flocked in, they gave the

and swarthy skin and Paynim features suited the costume exactly: he
      him that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without
sounds of the bottomless pit! I have a right to deliver myself from it

had done more than one?” asked his companion as he spilled into his
the terms in which they express them, are usually plagiaristic and
yard, unsuspecting enmity; and he must have driven off (though in a
policeman on the pavement outside and seeing the flash of the


Dorothy did not know this, nor could she get away from the bright red
something truly forbidding in a child taking up her elders in that
fire. As it came nearer the Tin Woodman saw that running before the
When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near
Today, however, they were not playing. Uncle Henry sat upon the
This worried Dorothy a little, but she knew that only the Great Oz
stay with him and be his. I longed to be his; I panted to return: it
king’s arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings
yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt. She
eyes were examining me but I would not satisfy him by looking up from
their privilege. The whole conversation ran on the breakfast, which one
asked.
      asked you! My resolution of thanking you for your kindness to
about the garden, and at last Mrs Donnelly said something very cross to

My journey seemed tedious—very tedious: fifty miles one day, a night
      his reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in a moment of
      that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could
      enquiries at Clapham. If he could anyhow discover at what house
      of thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not
after eight o’clock A.M.; and I would wait to be assured she had come

walked up to it, while Toto ran around the pole and barked.
mullioned and latticed windows, which gave it a church-like aspect; a
presence might make things awkward in the future, and, in short, it is
an outcast, and more tolerable to him. Although Farfrae had never so


their own white dresses against the singing breeze of the fans.
made some acquaintances, who almost contrived to cheat me into
      information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received

speaking, in a way that every young girl wants to be looked at
“Oh ciel! Que c’est beau!” and then remained absorbed in ecstatic
the toilet-table, the chairs were of darkly polished old mahogany. Out

up her face and warmed her through, though nobody was there to see what
But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening was not quite
Indian when he capered round the garden, an old tea-cosy on his head,

“You, sir, are the most phantom-like of all: you are a mere dream.”
amiably. She wanted to be on good terms with them but, while she strove

The boy came back with the corkscrew. The old man opened three bottles
about her age and size, and might have been her wraith or double, but
      that though I should be exceedingly grieved at their
and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden,
“Listen,” said Tom, shaking him a little. “I just got here a minute

“Is it really finished?” he murmured, stepping down from the platform.
“Do you think, Victor,” said he, “that I do not suffer
Bessie, having pressed me in vain to take a few spoonfuls of the boiled

“O no, she hadn’t. ’Twere not for charity but for hire; and at a
Emathia was said to have found in the vale of Jordan snakes “with
steeled your little pale face with such a resolute, frozen look, I
monstrous,” he said, at last, “the way people go about nowadays saying
float about after the breaking up of the ice. I profited of this time to
it is? You know I would help you.”
      Elizabeth by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom she
      morning after their arrival at Lambton, these visitors came. They
“If it were anything else,” she began, and the dryness of her lips was
forgotten to drop.

worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little

For Daisy was young and her artificial world was redolent of orchids
Lucetta had reclined herself, and she was looking dreamily through her
      at table, and judged it better that _one_ only of the household,
some young. Henry and Frederick Lynn are very dashing sparks indeed;
there.”
It happened that to-day there rose in the midst of them all two or
         Before the nations of the World.

      found on the Barnet road.”

room whose double illumination of fire and candle at first dazzled me,
the house, he would have been seen by the servants or the keepers. Had
My Wife
word.”
gravely.
became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year. It
      Derbyshire.”
“I bar the candles,” said Mr Kernan, conscious of having created an
Miss Mary Sinico said that of late her mother had been in the habit of

      about his mouth when he speaks. And there is something of dignity
sealed them up as before, and delivered the parcel at its address next

avoidance of a French word if one by accident came to her tongue more

      eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room, as to

      the lady’s sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that
she was or where she was going. Aunt Kate was more vivacious. Her face,
      generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at
      apologising instead of attending, and often moving wrong without
She paused, weeping, and then continued, “I thought with horror, my
red-room; it only gave my nerves a shock of which I feel the

peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes, his
that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night and Portia the other.
The kitchen, the butler’s pantry, the servants’ hall, the entrance

forbidden to write—to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor,
colleague of Mr Power. His own domestic life was not very happy. People
door. When he had gone halfway he turned around and stared at the
smiling at him.
were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. He would
approached the great stone bridge. He was driving a gig, his direction
a woman, even though she may be so nearly my own as you. No, Lucetta;
sorrow than men. They lived on their emotions. They only thought of
pockets. He took out a pack of thin pasteboard cards.
rang: all formed in file, two and two, and in that order descended the
the light the now rising moon cast on this more open quarter, my step
“Can I speak to you—not on business, sir?” said she.
his grey ulster turned up. He had a bag in his hand. Dorian recognized
I deliberated a moment; my answer, when it did come, was objectionable:
      disquiet, she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should



“How do you feel, Miss Baedeker?”

will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more.
      Gouldings soon. That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there
employed in digging and pulling up roots. After he had been employed

shield him from those sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit
      convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must

strong as to make itself felt like a damp atmosphere. “And yet I could
to show a stiff neck. He took no part in the conversation for a long
south! Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by
what I had been doing, how I had found him out; but I gave him only

      course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me
complicity between mother and daughter, no open understanding but,
which modern inquirers have written on these subjects. I attended the
variety of life.
enough outside to snap off the light.
impassable. I had closed my shutter, laid a mat to the door to prevent
      different doors, to recommend their being quick, as Lady



bowing before the little girl. “What do you wish?”
thought you knew more about people’s characters. Your friend Lord Henry
      party.”
hour in the morning. Diana and Mary having kissed him, left the room—in
steeplechase. They take things flying. I don’t think Dartmoor has a
      exercise.
bright blue eyes to express pleasure and surprise.
“Then make the best of it, in Heaven’s name—if you can’t get cultivated
than as a nuisance; to-night I hailed the first deep notes with
stagnate.”
the snow from blowing in under it, trimmed my fire, and after sitting
shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And
I pressed my lips to his once brilliant and now rayless eyes—I swept
fierce Kalidahs.
be loved, I never doubted some woman might be found willing and able to

She wouldn’t let go of the letter. She took it into the tub with her
rubies when the phone rang, and Gatsby took up the receiver.
hoped I’d corroborate this.
under no obligation; on the contrary, a decent quiescence, under the
window was fretted, and thus clearing a space in the glass through

 XIX
      good-natured, gossiping Lucases. I shall not sport with your

myself when young; but that wears out in a very short time.”



to see a letter that has been lying here some days for you; it is from
      sing, I should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the

in your breast, so I can put your heart in the right place. I hope it
were, no language can describe; but just as they all rose, stifling my
“Quick!” cried the Scarecrow. “Let us cross over.”
“I believe I will try it myself,” said the Woodman, and shouldering his
      resented.

passed through, and they clashed to behind us. We now slowly ascended a
glance of eager curiosity, and she met all eyes with one of rebuff and
thousand feelings pressed upon me, and I wept bitterly.
darkness makes people truthful, and the Scotchman went on
“I did.”
was only one danger—that my joints would rust; but I kept an oil-can in
“Only when one is young,” she answered. “When an old woman like myself
dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You have no idea


watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. The wan
have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists. Good
villain: you are not to suppose that—not to attribute to me any such
languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on
“I hope that sigh is from the heart, and that you repent of ever having
brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they would


whole he did not blame her.
You know, of course, that courage is always inside one; so that this
husband by waltzing with him to Mr Power’s accompaniment. In her days
      of her sister, was pleased, and on this account, as well as some
saw her and heard her daily: something of her breath (faugh!) mixed
transitional intermixture of town and down. It stood, with regard to
Frankenstein—more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps
florid, red-whiskered little man, whose admiration for art was

      “But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so



All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears. I burned with rage to
About five o’clock our procession of three cars reached the cemetery
“Oh, that is the light in which you view it! Well, I must go in now;
      “And my mother—how is she? How are you all?”
“I will not,” he said. And taking up his hat he went away.



contenting mysel’ with small profits frequently repeated, I soon made
an excuse; and always the lapse occurs at some crisis, when a facile

Dorothy wept bitterly at the passing of her hope to get home to Kansas
“He has taken against me,” she said in a husky voice.
forward with three potatoes which she had reserved for him.
in every other respect. He had come forth from the hands of God a
“There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. You were to me such an

it.”
her power. I think we were both rather nervous. The old Jew stood

married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted
against all the sins of which you have grown tired. You are much too
He knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their spiritual
word or two with him on past times. He would have preferred not to see
“Let’s get out,” whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful and
Henchard paused in his harangue and turned. “Oh, I didn’t notice you,
your man!”
their paths diverged.
“You examine me, Miss Eyre,” said he: “do you think me handsome?”
      carriages went along, and how often especially Miss de Bourgh


face directed towards the west. He turned at last, with measured

new abode, became very happy there, and made fair progress in her
      has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in
briefly related his attempt to win Lucetta’s intercession.
wait here and see if he tries to bother her about that unpleasantness
having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of
consternation, so little had I expected any guest from the blocked-up

      upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded
the four o’clock train.
This silence damped me. I thought perhaps the alterations had disturbed
      read three pages, she interrupted him with:

beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw
Henchard’s words—faith so simple as to be almost sublime. The young
silk has run smoothly enough so far; but I always knew there would come

boot against the hard ground. Some hated thought seemed to have him in
aim of this institution; it ought to be improved to the spiritual
me within, delivered myself up to the employment of watching and
ever seen.
“And everything...?”

“No. Indeed, at no hand would I have thought of it! And for you—didn’t

created should perpetrate some new wickedness. I had an obscure feeling
when you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late
letters might have been amongst them.
to try to lead her whither he had purposed, caressed one of her hands
through Mixen Lane, and thence up the back streets of Casterbridge.
a fellow-creature. Like Prester John’s, his table had been spread, and

      so very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! Dear
that gentleman was from home during the greater part of the first month
like a morning in May.
After half an hour, the sun shone again, and the grocer’s automobile
  Chapter 25
jade-green piles of vegetables. Under the portico, with its grey,
Hall. She went up the street in that direction.
contained no pretension, but it sank deep. The disquisitions upon
      her memory. She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such
“No, Basil, you must tell me,” insisted Dorian Gray. “I think I have a
her to wait a few minutes, she was inexorable, and tripped off homeward
hastened to his close. He raised his glass of port gallantly, while
------------------------------------------------------------------------
his arm, a fibula or brooch of bronze on his breast or forehead, an urn
L’esquif aborde et me dépose,
of mystification; and wondered what unseen spirit had been sitting for

rapid stream. I rushed from my hiding-place and with extreme labour,


he, setting his candle down on the washstand; “it is as I thought.”
o’clock Donald entered through the green door, with no trace of the
O hame, hame, hame to my ain countree!


I walked about the isle like a restless spectre, separated from all it
      having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the
favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with
      meantime. When she did come, it was very evident that she had no

I discovered, too, that a great pleasure, an enjoyment which the
wish that I had been; but you are made to be good—you look so good. I
accustomed to it, the grains of wheat swollen as large as lemon-pips,
“But where do you live?”
      her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as

“Yes; but the time is of no consequence: what followed is the strange
“If ever it occurs, you may bet your bottom dollar there’ll be no

a much lower key, that by this time he had discovered how plain and
“Does she want to see Gatsby?”
took the opportunity to get away, intending to come back later. But he
      one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him,
      “Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?”
“the breakfast was so ill prepared that the pupils could not possibly

received a double measure of welcome as it topped the crest of the hill
      Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the
between them supported a second candle and two great volumes, to which
will have to go up to town and take his seat; I daresay Mr. Rochester
      “And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he

I tried to go then, but they wouldn’t hear of it; perhaps my presence
cause were the real cause, or whether it were an assumed one to escape
food as could be obtained within the four seas; though, to those not
your class at Yale.”
“Truly able.”
      wedding clothes. But the case is this: We are not rich enough or

rose to view, black, low, and rather long; but the guiding light shone
“I should have thought, young man, that the presence of your father
This reflection, constantly repeated by Henchard to himself,
“Pure family affection, I assure you, Uncle George. I want to get
one. “A man must be a headstrong stunpoll to think folk would go up to
nightingale come over on the Cunard or White Star Line. He’s singing
“I am going that way.... Why Mr. Farfrae?” said Henchard, with the
them all drawn up in four semicircles, before four chairs, placed at
could still see these changes, though but as mere alternations of light

first?”
fatherland! He sat down; for half-an-hour we never spoke; neither he to
Beluga’s girls.
inexperience: that was evident. The question was: What reparation would
difference between a caprice and a lifelong passion is that the caprice
mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a
“Oh, I only came home from S——” (she mentioned the name of a large town

died. He performed these two social duties for old dignity’s sake but


told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you
men eyed him respectfully while he took a trial sip.
increasing so insensibly that it was difficult to state exactly when
      person to discourage him.”

attractive that he looked at her critically.
strange excitement, and reckless and feverish, I wished the wind to
      She entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious,


charity concerts, and the like that are showered on fashionable young
had rented from Mr Fulham, the corn-factor on the ground floor. That
upward.

“Merely to tell you that your uncle, Mr. Eyre of Madeira, is dead; that

when she was dressed, she sat demurely down in her little chair, taking
costume attracted me, hung on the wall over his desk.
      time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most
“Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar.” He walked around the

      daughters.
sportsman. Damn it, can’t we Irish play fair?”
But wide as pathless was the space
      any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has
      not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what
beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion,
There were several roads nearby, but it did not take her long to find
rocks at the bottom.
      sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know

Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed, and I’d known Tom
He began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so absolute a
      and net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this,
 Chapter XIII. The Rescue
I was now able to concentrate my attention on the group by the fire,
“Saying is one thing, and paying is another. Where’s the money?”
about that, hey? You never can tell in these hick towns—”

virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss

      turned out well. At such a distance as _that_, you know, things
As I love—loved am I!”
amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long
she ran over its vocabulary with an air. I presently perceived she was
      otherwise. In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the

      advantageously married, but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet,
they were not dreams. He remained seated, looking on the ground for
than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while
The French, moreover, were virtual victors. Their team had finished
sort of authority. I must be aided, and by that hand: and aided I was.
      At length, however, Mrs. Bennet had no more to say; and Lady
he called out:
more of life. He must be sure, also, to write to her by every mail, and
asylum for you.”
      younger daughters, as Jane’s marrying so greatly must throw them
taken no notice of Henchard’s brusque letter; but an exceptionally
not love in my heart, and constancy in my resolves? It will expiate at
“I told that boy about the ice.” Myrtle raised her eyebrows in despair
from a famous chorus, engaged in song. She had drunk a quantity of
gaol as an accessory to something or other after the fact. She
back with a strict hand such as had been straying through imagination’s
“Oh, do you like Europe?” she exclaimed surprisingly. “I just got back


how it can be done.”
after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of
for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exulting and laughing, but
attention was absorbed by the spectators; my eyes, erewhile fixed on
fast till I got warm, and then I walked slowly to enjoy and analyse the
“And found it, Mr. Gray?”
he took his journey homeward later on.
As the Monkey King finished his story Dorothy looked down and saw the
Blowbody round by the Old Walk and come up the street; and I’ll go with
majesty of the bed and room. I was not quite sure whether they had

In the huge gilt Venetian lantern, spoil of some Doge’s barge, that
my own soul.”
him—when you come back from Australia. You will like him so much.


with the cleaver and she had to sleep in a neighbour’s house.
      both of them frequently staid so long, that even Bingley’s good

Dorian’s whims are laws to everybody, except himself.”
loneliness sometimes, and felt it in others—poor young clerks who
wondered where the lady had come from. The stumpy and practical walk of
certainly should.”
offhand fashion by reason of the habitual catch in his voice and then,
      never liked her, and that her manners were dictatorial and

Elizabeth-Jane, whom she found sewing in her own sitting-room upstairs,
      consequence; they may wish him to marry a girl who has all the
could I but go back to the idea which had last entered my mind as I
hadn’t been aired for many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar
      justice. But she is very young; she has never been taught to
when two months wore away, and day after day the post arrived and
face flushed.
that church near the gates was his. The present Mr. Rochester’s mother
willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given him;
into three sections, each under its own leader and in its own garret,
High-Place Hall till her return. After two or three days of solitude
sake.”
  Chapter 13
      taken Mr. Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any
Reed must be written to, as she was my natural guardian. A note was

consequently they never bother me. What I want is information: not
all the road bordered with trees hanging full of delicious fruits. They
      “Lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything


Such was Mixen Lane in the times when Henchard and Farfrae were Mayors.

himself in a corner upon some sacks, in the abandonment of remorse.
      wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you
hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous,
“She’s a nice girl,” said Tom after a moment. “They oughtn’t to let
      invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to
continuation of a scene already progressing in her mind, Mrs. Henchard
the hard, yellow road-bed. The sun shone bright and the birds sang
      rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of
I do not wish to interfere.”
“On calm reflection, therefore,” she went on, “I quite forgive you for
What, and how much, Farfrae’s wife ultimately explained to him of her
      stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
“Who subscribes?”
“I see you are as you say,” replied she, sensibly getting the upper
      her mother, went to the window—she looked,—she saw Mr. Darcy with
drew one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.
time, I treated you distantly, and sought your company rarely. I was an
Other clocks struck eight from time to time—one gloomily from the gaol,
The night passed rapidly: I was too tired even to dream; I only once

The bitter check had wrung from me some tears; and now, as I sat poring
      to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown. Never

landscape in water colours, of which I had made a present to the
So the Wizard unfastened his head and emptied out the straw. Then he
seemed moved. Freddy Malins beat time with his pudding-fork and the
behind us and was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from
people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much surprised at my

caused it.”
nowadays. It is most unfair.”
endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this

“They are pork-packers, I suppose?”
The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her
      before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you,
the verse of a Psalm! angels sing Psalms;’ says he, ‘I wish to be a
till this morning that you were going to move, or we could have been

year, I could not forego the delicious pleasure of which I have caught
      they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted a
either side. He might, for that matter, write and inquire of Elizabeth;
under the temporary privation. A brief address on those occasions would
“Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?” asked the Voice, and Dorothy
with a well-planted blow; but he would not strike: he would only
      of them; do we?”

the thing to take a long walk in, for they could not wear out.”
longer.”
cordially invited to eat the circlet of delicate pastry upon it. Vain

speculation. And I do not want a stranger—unsympathising, alien,
      Since her being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was
wrong. But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy’s basket and
copied so well—smiling at me with these coral lips. She is mine—I am
There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well
Council, and quite a principal man in the country round besides. Never

Georgiana had run for Mrs. Reed, who was gone upstairs: she now came

Scarecrow in the middle and sent him tumbling, over and over, down the
Henchard was looking silently, as he often did, at this head of hair,
animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where
“Oh, it isn’t about that. At least—” He fumbled with a series of
and Pagan—her lawgivers, her statesmen, her conquerors: a steadfast

Here they settled themselves; and on each day of their lives Henchard

by my blessed fathers—nothing else will do him any good! I’m going up
always had the impression that he approved of me and wanted me to like
      period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed. He was
      more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the


strange, antique portraits of the men and women of other days decorated
figure was no Casterbridge woman’s, even if a book in her hand
to the soul made of fire, and the character that bends but does not
“Why—” she said hesitantly. “Tom’s got some woman in New York.”
she asked, placing her hand on my shoulder.
it aloft, and surveyed the garments pendent from the portmanteau.
penetrated the sable folds and waved them away; then, not a moon, but a
walked about; more at the feet and leggings of men, and less into the
“It has fallen to my lot this evening, as in years past, to perform a

day in a great green place full of trees, called the Park; and there
were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose
been painted yellow in the country of the Winkies and blue in the
When, at last, he walked into Dorothy’s room and thanked her for
you care—but—a sightless block!”
      nephew’s letter, that Charlotte, really rejoicing in the match,
      “And this,” said she, “is the end of all his friend’s anxious
      admitting a fourth. Good-bye.”

childhood by making seines in Newson’s home—might serve her in good
      highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been
drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger. And if these

the time he reached his door he was almost upon the heels of the
teacher, like yourself—really it strikes me there are parallel points
gorgeous in color and so light that they fluttered if the slightest

More than ten days elapsed before I had again any conversation with
      really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot understand it. If I were
heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my

below. A man seen there looking thus fixedly into the river was pretty

He held the door open for them, and they passed out into the hall and
“That was one of my tricks,” answered Oz. “Step this way, please, and I
      not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension
The night of the grand concert came. Mrs Kearney, with her husband and
      That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk
burning wood on his own hearth. In politics he was a Tory, except when
      proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily
      was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with
“Ma boite! ma boite!” exclaimed she, running towards it.

on that Miss Temple fully believed me.
voice tonight.”
      “Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”
somebody she knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the woman toward
“_You_,” I said, “a favourite with Mr. Rochester? _You_ gifted with the
a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent
But it was not her business to think for me, or to seek a place for me:
      herself, and to those of her family with whom he might converse
misunderstanding sent him to Oxford instead. He was worried now—there
was used to it. But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East, for


since on the occasions on which she had entered his room he had never

he is little liked here; he never took steps to make himself liked. Had
“I wish you all good-night, now,” said he, making a movement of the
XI.



      whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I

door, love flies in through the window. Our proverbs want rewriting.


him plead for it, could not but feel it too.
taking up the piece of cardboard again, began to fan the fire slowly
which I did not understand; and the old man again took up the

married Tom Buchanan without so much as a shiver, and started off on a
of his tail. “It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.
fanlike tongues of fire. A dog barked as they went by, and far away in
      “If! Do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been
      again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his many
the flag-staff still went on.

costume ball as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered
implicitly on His power, and confide wholly in His goodness: I count
lady who adopted her in her orphan state, reared her as her own
while he was out in O’Neill’s. He crammed his cap back again into his
“Very well! very well! I’ll pledge my word on it. You go to-morrow,

      said, “She is tolerable; but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
“Carraway.”
which had characterized her in their first acquaintance, the then

his dictation, he came and bent over me, and said—“Jane, have you a
“Luckily she married, and married well,” said Henchard. “So that these
living: but I pity him, for my part.”
“Nothing at all, nothing at all. It may not prove necessary to ye to
turned with its turnings, and finding a moss-blackened granite crag in
could not have lived with her openly. He had done what seemed to him
out quite distinctly now; but she did not mention him.
one watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one
      Elizabeth, in addition to every other source of happiness, were
      “My dearest child,” she cried, “I can think of nothing else! Ten
enlivened with three coats of white. He was as kind to her as a man,
Central Park, in front of the Plaza.”
She wasn’t able to endure being at a disadvantage and, given this


      “Oh! Jane,” cried Elizabeth, “was there a servant belonging to it
holding the note before her spectacles.
“But as you are rich, Jane, you have now, no doubt, friends who will
“Don’t speak to her—it isn’t respectable!” urged the other.
      to trace a resemblance. But, though this might be imaginary, she
The elder man lay back and looked at him with half-closed eyes. “By the

unshaken temper with which you have met its difficulties—I acknowledge
more singular than that of Miss Temple’s—a beauty neither of fine
released, would be to violate its conditions.”
Fair-field, which showed standing-places and pens where many hundreds
sincere Christian and practical philanthropist. Often, of an evening,
“You did it, Tom,” she said accusingly. “I know you didn’t mean to,
      Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement. There will not be
they went the more dismal and lonesome the country became.

up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth. Those of his
Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. “I believe you would, Basil. You

Woodman.
      is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very
      above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of
saw his fallibilities: I comprehended them. I understood that, sitting
      Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain
the last flyleaf was printed the word schedule, and the date September
college, and he got—plucked, I think they call it: and then his uncles
then know that it was no transitory blossom, but rather the radiant
play a part. Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray that night could
      single vacancy near her which would admit of a chair. And on the

      than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
      Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she
Millcote, ——shire; I brushed up my recollections of the map of England;

and disposition I could wish: should you admit her into Lowood school,
street in close file, so as to form at places a wall between the

and how the heels of her cloth boots were trodden down all to one side.
He ground his teeth and was silent: he arrested his step and struck his
“Under your eyes—I notice a little brownness there.”
to the utmost to see her again; and at length succeeded.
The next day was broiling, almost the last, certainly the warmest, of
and do not merit! You, penniless! Famous equality and fraternisation!
      at length they all sat down, looked eagerly round the room, took
      “Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that
“She has been unkind to you, no doubt; because you see, she dislikes
short, it has disturbed you. Let me hear it. Mrs. Fairfax has said
analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I
“By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre,
weep with bitterness, “are you always to be unhappy? My dear friend,
came to visit her, she always gave the visitor one or two slips from

it. Let me see it.” And Hallward walked towards the corner of the room.

disclose my secret to him, you shall share the confidence.
      He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he

licked it with their forked and destroying tongues.
out of drawing, or you won’t like his tone of colour, or something. You
gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out. Curious stories

Mr D’Arcy came from the pantry, fully swathed and buttoned, and in a


Two or three rooms are fit for occupation, though not all: I sleep
the second, but felt she ought to marry the first; so that the good she

      But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man,

      have done with you from this very day. I told you in the library,
to me sometimes; but I don’t think the poor girl liked the task much:
features and countenance are so much at variance as in your case. And
anticipate.”
very strange, and mortally apprehensive of some one coming in and
before? She is so quiet and unassuming.”
      agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not
He lashed her across the neck with his crop. She cleft the dusky air
arrived from a town in Minnesota. It said only that the sender was
“Oh, no.”
led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me with terror. There
course you won’t leave again. Think over the plan I have proposed for a
living death of his own soul that troubled him. Basil had painted the
      “I will make no promise of the kind.”
the road and saw by the lighted dial of a clock that it was ten minutes
      with a nice little pair of ponies, would be the very thing.
now—“don’t ’ee go away from me. It may be I’ve spoke roughly to you—but
“It was that chalice he broke.... That was the beginning of it. Of
      set out together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ——, in
she would always keep me.”
“What have you been doing during my absence?”
      and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty.
was appalling—the rest I could bear; but I shuddered at the thought of
and to amuse, and his brain and throat were too dry for such a task.
“Conditionally.”

      the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.


horrible to him that it was here the fatal portrait was to be hidden
“O, Mr Conroy, will you come for an excursion to the Aran Isles this


She sang:
Mrs. Grey was coarse and insensible; no blow took effect on her. But

thought and not of the man which made him speak, “do you remember my
sat in the sledge and guided the dogs. We watched the rapid progress
you must not think too much about it.”
      be her sister; that she is perfectly convinced of her brother’s
was made of Smyrna gold brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses

who had lived so long on the dry, gray prairies.
“Good-bye!” shouted everyone, and all eyes were turned upward to where
shall believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I

towns, but the thrilling returning trains of my youth, and the street
so negligently bestowed.”

the annoyance it must have been to him with that painful sprain: then
“Doesn’t her husband object?”
      “Then, who taught you? who attended to you? Without a governess,
spreading their knees, and thrusting their hands into the pockets of

abject—which, of course, I would not have allowed—but I assure you that
satisfaction. He called Elizabeth-Jane. Seeing how he looked when she
everybody.
“and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake. It is most

life. Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever
to be taken to the region of spirits, if such region there were. I
you touch a spring, and a wreath with a black silk bow for mother’s
kiss, exchange with her one last word.
I was about again to revert to the probability of a union between Mr.


“Oh, yes,” said Tom, gruffly polite, but obviously not remembering.

is it?”
and several other men were with him; first, four or five men, later

night, but July nights are short: soon after midnight, dawn comes. “It
other than a mere voice and vision, something that would melt to
“But what are you going to do to repay us for the past?” inquired the
can see her to-night.”

become quite distasteful to my dear master.”

I lingered at the gates; I lingered on the lawn; I paced backwards and
“Jane” (bending towards and embracing me), “do you mean it now?”
proceeds to one among the smaller of his creditors, a cottager of
“Very likely,” I returned; “or perhaps clerk or agent to a
      “EDW. GARDINER.”
“Do you say your prayers night and morning?” continued my interrogator.
the cupboard. After he had eaten he would lie down on his bed of straw,

A massive and lethargic woman, who had been urging Daisy to play golf
“—So I took one look at him,” said Mr. Wolfshiem, shaking my hand


unconscious of his attention, and in this was less fortunate than those




no better _modus vivendi_ could be arrived at with Farfrae than by
The nineteenth century dislike of romanticism is the rage of Caliban

affection—of the strongest kind—was the result. They discovered I could
“Have you found your first day’s work harder than you expected?” he
and sank into a dozing state. I then left her.

“And you would wish me to advance some money?”
me some minutes; then added, “She looks sensible, but not at all

“Elizabeth-Jane,” he said, taking her hand, “I want you to hear this.”
face with that mask—this form with that bulk; then judge me, priest of

Farfrae looked round. “I think I have expressed the feeling of the

full falcon-eye flashing, and tenderness and passion in every
      comes Hill! My dear Hill, have you heard the good news? Miss
the sound of his own voice. He thought that in her eyes he would ascend
      acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley. I think I have heard

“They carried him into my house,” appended Jordan, “because we lived
      on _fine eyes_.

passing backwards and forwards. When the evening was far advanced, a



Elizabeth hastily put on her things and departed. “I wonder why she
“Then you should do so at once. You can finish the morning by going

totally different person” (pointing to the other), “for the whole of
pride and my delight. On the evening previous to her being brought to
abigails, I suppose, were upstairs with their mistresses; the new

girdling a great hill-hollow, rich in verdure and shadow; in a bright

elderly woman to go upstairs and take off her things. She replied with

“Just tell me this,” said I, “and since you know so much, you surely
accounted for the detachment of the wheel, which was now getting
      not wish them to make it known to her. He was writing and,
immediately charm the snake.
would be content to patch up such an affair for a sum of money; she had
condescending to West Egg and carefully on guard against its
see me, for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of

shape denote admiration.

Dorian Gray grew sick with fear. “I never knew her,” he stammered. “I
contrary direction, the vehicle being driven by Farfrae.
have enough money for this lively scheme without help, you know? If you
      could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy’s

Yet after all my task was not an easy one; often I would rather have
one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth will not be
there remained a conscientious wish to bring about her union with him,

      tell what I suffer! But it is always so. Those who do not
hard to extirpate from my soul the germs of love there detected; and
injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood.
      fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very

      really attached to me—I believe it will be better that he should
neighbourhood of this artery from a sense that, situated here, though
dazzled my eyes; I thought—Oh, it is daylight! But I was mistaken; it
therefore, whether you object to an immediate solemnisation of the
      Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. She
“My dear fellow, she tried to found a _salon_, and only succeeded in


that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had finished, the beauty
      now?”
congratulations! Who wants them? Not I!—they are fifteen years too
views than St. John—had been strongly disposed in my own heart to
word as in many.”

had a right, of course, to do as he pleased: and yet a momentary damp
that to her, or to any one but myself? Georgiana also advanced to look.
be parted like that! O, if I had my wish, I’d let people live and love
by it?”
      have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to

      being with Charlotte, and the kind attentions she had received,
give me both hands: mount!”

these; and having satisfied himself that in appearance at least he
there be in these regions—should pick my flesh from my bones, than that
in other things.
so.
his ears when I came in: then he jumped up with a yelp and a whine, and
by the arm, he almost led him into the house.
“Dear! dear! What a fury to fly at Master John!”
Don’t squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying
names of these towns I learn in what county I have lighted; a
Between our spirits stood.
the hard floor would not hurt their feet. Of course they took pains not
of snow, down which stones continually roll from above; one of them is
of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements. This sentiment of
chalice on his breast.

divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as though he was praying.
approached. The railway had stretched out an arm towards Casterbridge
      whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention. The

complete.
“You unbend your forehead at last,” said Mr. Rivers. “I thought Medusa
prospect lends.
      affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say
      my dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not
lawn, the grounds were trodden and waste: the portal yawned void. The
was going on. There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing

“Not a doubt of it,” said Mr Kernan warmly.
round—for the same reason. And even at the dinner-parties of the
“My dear old Basil, you are much more than an acquaintance.”

      probable, stay quietly at home, and be satisfied that _we_ shall
sisters urged me not to go, he would invariably make light of their
“Did I ever hear him!” said the invalid, nettled. “Rather! I heard
“In that case,” answered Mrs. Henchard cautiously, “ask him to write me
stand that had always looked to him like the work of some strange
was the only lady equestrian; and, as before, Mr. Rochester galloped at


sea when I was a steady chap. I’ll find some words to fit en.” He took

endure the worst. I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember
understand?”
tale: it amuses me to watch them.”
longed only for what suited me—for the antipodes of the Creole: and I
Not far from the porch of the club a harpist stood in the roadway,


Farfrae allowed the horse to turn several steps into the branch lane

      “I do not blame Jane,” she continued, “for Jane would have got
to encourage.

Experience was of no ethical value. It was merely the name men gave to
to have you all to myself. I was only happy when I was with you. When
frequent visitor; while there was gloom and fear within its walls;
I went. I found it a large, handsome residence, showing abundant
it comes again! It is no devil, I assure you; or if it be, it has put
its reasoned philosophy and its ordered principles, and find in the
when hungry; they were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more,
      must not attempt to have it taken, for what painter could do justice to
      “If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am
“‘Great God!’ exclaimed the old man. ‘Who are you?’
approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, “Come, sir, you must
him, if a small one; and I have told the Council that I would head a
S. Schwartz (the son) and Arthur McCarty, all connected with the
me. I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle

“It is delightful!”
presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also
      “If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elizabeth,
life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn
themselves as _bona fide_ travellers. But his fellow-travellers had

some weeks. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose,
went into the room.
affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature
      intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the


timetable, I drew a small circle around the three-fifty train. Then I
been a source of profound affliction to her: but she had now, she said,
thought it trembled a little.
“Ah, well, he’s not so bad after all. He’s as good as his word,
near the gates, and I asked, “Is he with Damer de Rochester, sharing
to and from the city between nine in the morning and long past
surface of the Sound.
at them, the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which
more to know myself; and when Mr. St. John demanded an account—which at
knowledge they possessed! Then they seemed so familiar with French
“And, ma’am,” he continued, “the laundress tells me some of the girls
      disgrace—when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to
just now—is she gone? Oh, no! there she is still, behind the
Again at eight o’clock, when the dark lanes of the Forties were lined
hearers to open his books, the books of his spiritual life, and see if
might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his

through. This may be got out of him in one way—that you would let it be
“That is true,” said the Scarecrow. “You see,” he continued
pure there. In the distance lay the park where the trees were weighted


be only too glad if it’s of service to you.”
      to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities,
      a regular part of the business. On finding Mrs. Bennet,

pulling the daisy to bits with his long nervous fingers.
“Then, in the first place, do you agree with me that I have a right to
I doubt if even Miss Baker, who seemed to have mastered a certain
school?”

of landscapes and flowers by them executed; of songs they could sing
I’ll just—figuratively speaking—attach you to a chain like this”

better; and to humble myself so to her is painful.”
of those dead and gone great ones whose fame the world will not
hay. The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched
cashier came out with the chief clerk. It was no use trying to say a
lips. I heard them clear and soft: a thought too solemn perhaps, but
Louisa Eshton had cried out simultaneously—
pulled you down like that?”
      when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and
stopped till we were alone. Ah—I know why! I’ve told ye the secret o’

He smiled understandingly—much more than understandingly. It was one

      send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for

“I shall sully the purity of your floor,” said he, “but you must excuse
the spectators. Their eyes became riveted upon the faces of the chief

the father of Safie, who married her. The young girl spoke in high and
face. Then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room was terribly
home only a few minutes later than Elizabeth-Jane. Her plan was to
“O, most people give some donation to the monastery when they leave.”

true I am in the corren trade—but I have replied to no advertisement,

      apologise for about a quarter of an hour.
Casterbridge and Budmouth, where I shall take the packet-boat. Can you

disposition; but, with all my ardour, I was capable of a more intense

down upon their heads the vengeance of those among their comrades who

fortunately for him, were sufficiently conspicuous; giving, indeed, a
was a listener. I sympathised with and partly understood them, but I
      finished, she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to

was to Mrs. Henchard too fearful a thing to contemplate. It had seemed,
      said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before her
along the road.”
married. Now is that true or not?”

treated as an equal by those of my own age, and not molested by any;
forehead.
      “Much more rational, my dear Caroline, I dare say, but it would
Amidst this sordid scene, sat a man with his clenched hands resting on
appreciate all that was good in her to the utmost. I sought in her
another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it
      he mean by apologising for being next in the entail?—We cannot


else. He would be a wonderful study.”
I continued obdurate. Dear lady, I had none to support me; all looked
      “I shall be very fit to see Jane—which is all I want.”
civilization have passed over the town. It took a waggon and four
large and irregular building; till, emerging from the total and
allured me: a marriage was achieved almost before I knew where I was.
“Open another window,” commanded Daisy, without turning around.
to breakfast, after which they started again upon their journey.
His sisters looked at each other and at me; we all three looked at him:
result was the same.”
pinned to her shoulder.
unspotted from the world. Men who talked grossly became silent when
something spoke out of me over which I had no control.

once more, clean and respectable looking—no speck of the dirt, no trace
      period to which he alluded, as to make her receive with gratitude
followed him and closed with him in mortal strife? But I had suffered him
She now felt the difficulty of conveying to his mind the exact aspect
department, before the committee was appointed; and he bored us with
had not been taken in time; and the elder gentlemen laughed, and the

Were you jealous, Jane?”
great distance that had separated him from Daisy it had seemed very
great, big, hulking physical specimen of a—”
still continued and grew louder. Yes, it was better to let Lord Henry
answer. Except for a light in one of the top windows, the house was all
Very early the next morning I heard him up and astir, wandering from

you will not be harmed.”
      “My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have
fixed in study—I comprehended all at once that he would hardly make a
talk to her. Is that right? What about that?”
“Missis looks stout and well enough in the face, but I think she’s not


were not sickly; but not buoyant, for you had little hope, and no
Yes, life of some kind there was; for I heard a movement—that narrow
loud and long-continued. Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the
      lady’s imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to
position, Miss Scatcherd continued to make her an object of constant
the spectacle of a little hungry robin, which came and chirruped on the
      to yours, I can only say that I am sorry. The necessity must be
anticipated his sure reward, his incorruptible crown. I know that a
acquainted with the path, and the presence of another would destroy the
cared to speak to him. He knows nothing about it. He shall never know
      bonnet. I do not think it is very pretty; but I thought I might
his back to them, turning over the pages of a volume of Schumann’s
The strangest thing of all was, that not a soul in the house, except
      have done, for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of
“Take, have, and keep, are pleasant words.” With peace of mind came

trick would be discovered.
      once.
shoots very straight. But there is no use talking about the matter.”
children, the only hopes of their doting parents; how many brides and
her to be gone; but she has taken a chair in the chimney-corner, and

had been cut.
father’s office. I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of
“Casterbridge is a old, hoary place o’ wickedness, by all account. ’Tis
      Collins’s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for

I’ve always been glad I said that. It was the only compliment I ever
“It’s very kind of you to bring him home,” she said.
hundreds of miles of road. We passed through several towns, and in one,
      view of the high woody hills behind the house, and of the
      became apparent, that on the score of some family objections on
waggons and horses, one laden with hay-trusses, the leaders having
      Longbourn.
with scrupulous care. She got disheartened. It may at once be declared
farmers near them. Yet Lucetta seemed silent, and then all thought of
carry you over the desert. In the meantime you shall all be treated as
“I will not,” retorted the Witch, “for it is now my shoe, and not

yet again: and I will make you confess I do not only _like_, but _love_
went over and poured out the tea. The two men sauntered languidly to
possessed my senses, though just now I could not speak.

through a window near, shone full both on us and on the approaching

      ask him to dinner.
      mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an early
charming exaggeration of friendship. He had listened to them, laughed
laughing.
      spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which

sighed Hallward. “That is something.”
light in them despite his excitement and irritation. For a moment
      I assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas’s.”

“He isn’t causing a row,” Daisy looked desperately from one to the
the armchair, and the footstool, at which I had a hundred times been

measured him, and learnt him, by virtue of the power which the still

until you do as I wish.”
lifetime been an intruder into his family quite as far as politeness
Just at this time Farfrae, who had been to Henchard’s house to look for
      clever; but I rather believe she derives part of her abilities
them elicited the brand new name) and found that he was quick and
Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small reluctant hand.
Elizabeth sighed. “I said I would never forget him. But O! I think I
“What?” Confused, he stared at us as we laughed. “A medium?”
heard from the Guardian of the Gates that Dorothy had melted the Wicked
the cheerless evening landscape. The river lay quiet beside the empty
indiscernible barbed wire between. He found her excitingly

harmony with those at the head; just as the west end of a church is
      to him all the improprieties of Lydia’s general behaviour, the
      shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer to
“I know I didn’t.”
      “Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh,” said

I was spared the trouble of answering, for Bessie seemed in too great a
about the sort of love of which I am capable. Every atom of your flesh
of the humblest sort. And if you are inclined to despise the day of
trial of strength. The table was cleared and the two men rested their
shoes that she never took them off except at night and when she took
“It is a very strange piece of business,” I added; “I must know more
to the country at large in celebration of a national event that had
formality of speech just missed being absurd. Some time before he
Chapter 9

is not fit for you to see, sir. It is not, indeed.”

her side; the two rode a little apart from the rest. I pointed out this
      with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and
his eyes questioned my eyes piercingly—he kissed me. There are no such

jerks, and moving like a great tree in a wind. “No, Elizabeth, I don’t.
over an album. She seems waiting to be sought; but she will not wait
“You always look so cool,” she repeated.
      Elizabeth, and one of the younger girls together, soon after
      “His misfortunes!” repeated Darcy contemptuously; “yes, his

Lord Henry stretched himself out on the divan and laughed.
where the Scarecrow was perched upon his pole. Then the Stork with her


I arrived at Geneva. My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk
reception; I anticipated only coldness and stiffness: this is not like
      the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his
      Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the

      arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead
than a devil at this moment; and, as my pastor there would tell me,
the school. Inquiry was made into the origin of the scourge, and by
for a tale of misery. The host was a respectable-looking, middle-aged
you not very thankful to have such a fine place to live at?”
distance. It was the same vehicle whence, a year ago, I had alighted
away. How little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in
impatient of my delay, sent up to ask why I did not come. She was just
“I give it to you.”
      for a few minutes, said to Darcy:
friend, and to speak of her and be grateful to her accordingly.”
  Chapter 48

trade in grain; when still, as from the earliest ages, the wheat

“Not yet.”
passed into the dining-room.

      always been evident to her that such an income as theirs, under
all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed safely under

contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while
shop in Mary’s Lane.”
word will be a blessing to us. Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his
absolutely without home and friends.”
“An absolute rose?”
“If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honour I will never
a small communication, “will you kindly undertake not to speak to me in
Narborough. I shan’t go upstairs. I shall go home. I must go home.”
breaking it as gently as you can? I’m so bad at letters.”
her teeth appearing with the word through the black fleece that
Emerald City until they reached the room where the Guardian of the
grave face.
I knew well therefore what would be my father’s feelings, but I could
retraced his steps along Yalbury Plain, the gig coming up with him as
haughty spirit that the simple thrifty deed was regarded as little less

“I suppose,” thought I, “judging from the plainness of the servant and

pedestrians were about to enter. Before they had risen to proceed two
      even his open petition rejected. She assured him that no one

instead of with brains, as yours is, how am I ever to know anything?”
      Elizabeth coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it; if,
retreat upstairs.
pleasure, and Mary Jane turned to Miss Daly.
“I have to thank her for this sprain.”
which I know I shall overcome, because I have vowed that I _will_
the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and
as he narrated in fullest detail the incidents of the transaction with

“But there are folk whose turn is before mine; and I’m over young, and
      their visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was
“Don’t mention it,” said the young man.
the ladder to be placed she slid down the face of the clover-stack to
with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground,
I said nothing: I was afraid of occasioning some shock by declaring my
“No, you did not. You said it was because there was too much of
courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned

attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest whose illness increased in
some purchases which should put him, externally at any rate, a little
five minutes more of that death-like hush, and I should have forced the
      they both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to

and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her

“That proves you have a wicked heart; and you must pray to God to
find? Some of your accomplishments are not ordinary.”
nothing she nearly cried outright.
“In a few more hours I shall succeed you in that track, cousin,”
these sensations, I allowed myself to be borne away by them, and
their mistakes. Moralists had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of
name of her sons for she was very sensible of the dignity of family

the obscured ceiling. I lifted up my head to look: the roof resolved to
kind heart that she would be sure to like him. He was the kind of man
Kearney looked straight before him, stroking his beard, while Mrs
      “Where is your sister?” said he hastily, as he opened the door.

him. It was Basil Hallward. A strange sense of fear, for which he could

caught me. I looked up—I was supported by Mr. Rochester, who sat in a
to alleviate.

And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb
      her intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine


will not be summoned to leave England sooner than you expected?”
herself in a wonderful place. It was a big, round room with a high

Lowood.”
none: this second edition demands a few words both of acknowledgment


well of you, take out these two pictures and compare them: say, ‘Mr.
to new duties and a new life in the unknown environs of Millcote.

at him. No one would think of biting such a little thing, except a
quite near. “If I could go out of life now, without too sharp a pang,
usually has his own way. But what do YOU want?” he continued, speaking
“My ideal, as you call it...”
laid out for me; and Conscience, turned tyrant, held Passion by the
mademoiselle to the moon, and there I shall seek a cave in one of the
Miss Ingram, who had now seated herself with proud grace at the piano,
real father?” he said. “Would you have cared for me as much as you
Matlock, and the Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of
      expenses of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But
Mr Browne led his charges thither and invited them all, in jest, to
      marriage had always been her object; it was the only provision
      perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.
feelings; and if the analysis is partially effected in thought, they
      should be miserable to forfeit it. My father, however, is partial
      too forcibly for denial, and the circumstances to which he



feasted instead on the spectacle of ideal drawings, which I saw in the

“I have not considered the subject,” said he indifferently, looking
destructiveness towards the speakers ominous to see; but he said
      “I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by
He stood still in the gloom of the hall, trying to catch the air that
flag on the doorstep, put it under his arm, and went down the street.
      their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce their marriage.
its superior wildness and ruggedness. The Greeks wept for joy when
“You are really very comforting,” warbled the duchess. “I have always
to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as
proportionate punishment.”
swiftness and motion. The sullen murmur of the bees shouldering their
time showing them my own sixpence. When we were making the last
has been already made, hearing the din of cleavers, tongs, tambourines,
I never saw this great-uncle, but I’m supposed to look like him—with
chess in a garden, while a company of hawkers rode by, carrying hooded
keeping. “By George! we ought to have got a few more while we had him
of that sad night, cannot be told. That she informed him of the bare
they take it?—I don’t want what don’t belong to me!” Moved by a
said good-bye to one another in Irish. Soon the name of Miss Kathleen
St. John when he comes in.”
about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl Vane
waited for people to come to him. But he always made an exception in
conscious of decent lives within them, gazed at one another with brown
with agitating risk and romantic chance, I still again and again met
CHAPTER XXX
jailor, for Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk
to put out the crumbs on the window-sill, when Bessie came running
husband. See that she is cared for as her condition demands, and you

incident which forced her to vary its clockwork regularity.
Mr. Rochester meditated. “When do you wish to go?”
and flowery branches across the path; I see the narrow stile with stone
Henry, stepping forward and extending his hand. “My aunt has often
purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure,
      cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the
confused; then, as he lay in his house and didn’t move or breathe or
      “And they are really to be married!” cried Elizabeth, as soon as
“Surely you are the man,” went on Henchard insistingly, “who arranged
at this time, but had not reached it by several miles as yet; so that
      When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to
“No, no.”
such an intrepid toper that he still appeared fairly sober, recurred to
consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,—in the smiles and frowns
Yet, still, words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably



      turned her eye on Charlotte. Once or twice she could discern a


warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and prospects are
      table. She had only to say in reply, that they had wandered
wisdom! Cease; you know not what it is you say.”
On a previous occasion when he had declared during a fuddle that he
grimace—one of his strange and equivocal demonstrations—threw down his
      the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain;
A mile off, beyond the fields, lay a road which stretched in the
Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.

as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all
cardboard against the wall, sighed and said:
looked frightened; her work had slipped from her knee; she was lifting




with the lunatic: the transaction in the church had not been noisy;
      Parsonage together.
changed their minds. I used to look at my master’s face to see if it
those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I
“Don’t touch me. Finish what you have to say.”

for the guidance of those whose lot it was to lead the life of the
beating, and wondered what was coming.
crusted characters who had a decided taste for living without worry.
      disadvantage to be so very guarded. If a woman conceals her
extraordinary. A group of more interest appeared near the hearth,
      sense of their father and mother. When they get to our age, I
trifle! I proposed it—that’s all. Now, ’Lizabeth-Jane, just please

to approach in his sullen woe. The caged eagle, whose gold-ringed eyes
at a distance; but that until she heard from Bessie, and could discover
      object, where she feared most to fail, she was most sure of


because he began saying “Oh, my God!” again in a whisper—his comforter
      to town directly, and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor
directed the conversation. The five young men had various tastes and

it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I
town to consult his doctor and asking him to entertain his guests in
frame, specially designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous
“_Who_ is it? _What_ is it? Who speaks?”
sits and smiles in the eyes of a gentleman you—”
The child began to prattle impatiently, and the wife more than once
It was all true as she had pictured—she could have sworn it. Lucetta

painted face.
be on the train.
turned back a few steps and was lost in grave reflection, finally
scandal.”

Lion’s back they all managed to scramble to the top. Then the Lion
Having reached the door, he turned the key and opened it. He did not
“And what good does it do you?”

“I mean,—What next? How did you proceed? What came of such an event?”
fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in
harlequin designs and pastry pigs and turkeys bewitched to a dark
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.
room and began to pull the big bell. In a few minutes the women began
      least to blame, that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham
Presently he found himself by the door of his own dwelling. To his
wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved
thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like a
the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely
      concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be
station on the opposite side of the mantelpiece.
such loathsome yet appalling hideousness. I shut my eyes involuntarily and
properly. It was a text which might seem to the casual observer at
with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity


      here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk.
“And what way did you treat me?” asked Mrs Kearney.

      if he was acquainted with the former.
sustained. Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the
      my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to perform what I
Adèle flew to the window. I followed, taking care to stand on one side,
every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream—I
in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving the theatre

of the horizon. Oh! How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the

as his master, eh? Cut ye out quite, hasn’t he?”
other girls in her position ever did, and her mother groaned as she
time in years. It was when I asked you—do you remember?—if you knew
he repeated lines to himself and this consoled him.
and seeing them descend to the drawing-room, dressed out in thin muslin
hours of absence. The room and the house were silent: only now and then
Now the Scarecrow, who had expected to see the great Head Dorothy had

strange creatures set the travelers down carefully before the gate of
“I never grant favors without some return,” said Oz; “but this much I
painter was silent and preoccupied. There was a gloom over him. He
      “This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not
      “My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down. He is come—Mr. Bingley
However, it was not too late; and on second thoughts he determined to
revealed.
      Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said


recklessness following on despair—soothe him; save him; love him; tell
      “Let me first see how he behaves,” said she; “it will then be
here; and be nimble.”
      him attached to me, they would not try to part us; if he were so,
“Just give me your hand,” he said: “it will not do to risk a fainting
my way: I should have told him my intention. I should have confided in
shoulder, but Wilson neither heard nor saw. His eyes would drop slowly
“Well, I’m not seventy,” said the invalid.
centre of the schoolroom, and oblige them to stand there till the
was very clean and neat: the ornamental windows were hung with little
and again intimated that I desire the hair to be arranged closely,
When Mr. St. John went, it was beginning to snow; the whirling storm


you to appear in the drawing-room every evening; it is my wish; don’t
moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as its
into the world alive before I assigned to her all that property. It was
      be inured to self-denial and dependence.”
sounds blasphemous.”
“O, don’t trouble, I beg!”
glue-boiler.”
Home-brewed Beer, Ale, and Cyder.” The other was less new; a little

there under watch and ward. Some have whispered to you that she is my
      elsewhere. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written
In wandering round the shattered walls and through the devastated
“And the little girl—my pupil!”
sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something
irresponsible. He charmed his listeners out of themselves, and they
till after my renewed promise that I knew it.”
Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle
with the sight of Farfrae, spoke out: “Let us go and look at the
      said they never saw so fat a haunch. The soup was fifty times
did was nowhere more conspicuous than in this question of clothes. To
reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little
      seats, Mr. Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire,
affection. They conversed with one another through the means of an
      to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with
curtains of deep red damask, stood out like a tabernacle in the centre;
industry, talent; because these are the means by which men achieve
fortune, I could better endure to be kept by him now.” And somewhat

the evening he said, with the stillness of suspense: “Have you seen Mr.
      niece, that such a striking civility as Miss Darcy’s in coming to
loss even of one’s worst habits. Perhaps one regrets them the most.
She murmured something; but seemed to find it difficult to frame her
French mechanicians. The resonant voice of the Hungarian was about to

light fell over a photograph which was enclosed in a frame of crumpled
      “Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches
      certainly no right to concern yourself in mine. I must beg,
      “And that,” said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the
The porter took up his candle again, but slowly for he was surprised by
these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand
In a moment he was out of sight.
seat before a pair of globes placed on one of the tables, summoned the

over her and stirred the dainty folds of her dress. “I love him,” she
“M. Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man.
of the tiny blossoms. He watched it with that strange interest in
river, cloud, sunbeam—of the landscape before us; of the weather round
      Recovering himself, however, shortly, he turned to his partner,
The visitor, on the contrary, did not laugh half a wrinkle.
Lake Superior, and he was still searching for something to do on the
      comforts, and mentioned nothing which she could not praise. The
“In London, Paris, Milan,” said Mr Bartell D’Arcy warmly. “I suppose
she was infirm in mind. Thus, at the age of twenty-six, I was hopeless.
“You are a sceptic.”

the river the swift current swept the raft downstream, farther and
      And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with

off gig-lamp flashed in Henchard’s face. At the same time Farfrae
dead as a herring two hours since, and you are all alive and talking

shall leather breeches!”
      wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed their all walking out. It


sound incredible. No blame attached to me: I am as free from
had something to show me.
with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the

      good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my
      cannot see too little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is
now. It was too late.
cheeks when she was fairly baffled by the portentous obscurity of many
whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I

embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of
      what can you have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can
throb in my head and temples; but for nearly an hour it worked in
“Who is that?” said the man, peering through the darkness.

as it seemed, to _see_ with those sightless eyes—unavailing and
Gabriel pointed to the statue, on which lay patches of snow. Then he
read the paragraph over and over again. The cabbage began to deposit a
      Jane invited her to follow her up stairs. When they had gained
had occupied a quarter of a century before. Externally there was
proportions. As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by long
of the snarling, canine noise, and a deep human groan.

laughter and grow sad. I want a breath of our passion to stir their
his eyes, Lord Henry rushed through the flapping palms to find Dorian

      this, heard it in silent indignation. Her heart was divided
beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered
some day be to me. It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from

act of expressing the present contentment of his mood, and his newly

      “We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the
      “Aye—because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and
      morning, found Elizabeth’s arm inadequate to her support, and
be bolder.”
hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed; but I feel myself

belonged to the Witch of the East.
flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew away

      resentment _is_ a shade in a character. But you have chosen your
find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing
He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings expressed
soon after they had begun their journey again they came to a place
heard your impetuous republican answers, and your haughty disavowal of
her. I had never thought of Mr. Rochester.

possessor of Mr. Oliver’s large fortune, he might do as much good with

      But Jane could think with certainty on only one point—that Mr.
Fitzpatrick seemed to enjoy himself; he was quite unconscious that Mrs
curiosity. Finding the door open, I entered. An old man sat in it,

“Well, so much the better. Now Susan, I want to have her called Miss
When the true facts came to be handled the difficulty of restoring her
on the robes of an angel of light. I think I must admit so fair a guest
just such as the ladies of Carthage must have had. Bless me! there’s
suppose?”
uncertain, like that of an elderly lady. This circumstance was
quiet familiar to me: you are like—why, you are like Jane Eyre!”
corner. As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next
      you all, and then Wickham would be angry.”
where no cattle now browsed; and the little brown birds, which stirred
no such meal as lunch mentioned. Who introduced this innovation? and by
furniture and my what-you-may-call wife all his own.”
of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same
“Unchanged and unchangeable,” was the reply. And he proceeded to inform
LUCETTA.

elevated position disclosed. While they looked a solitary human form


      coppice-wood which bordered it. Elizabeth longed to explore its

      turned her eyes on the daughter, she could almost have joined in
of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I
“Well—they are. Dear me—I wonder if—Father, let us go away!”
He paid twopence halfpenny to the slatternly girl and went out of the
“Then off for your bonnet, and back like a flash of lightning!” cried
observer, now and then, in his eye, and closed again before one could
“Oh! Peace, peace, my love,” replied I; “this night, and
      Kitty, are scarcely to be described. Wholly inattentive to her
“Are you serious?”
cried passionately; “as for _him_—he’s hot-tempered and stern, and it
Varens was connected with her; but I recollected it was not polite to


It is in vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied with
different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome!
      you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going

son-in-law brought them every year to the lakes and they used to go
and mysterious regions.
Ere I had finished this reply, my soul began to expand, to exult, with
luring from the narrow path. He asked, he urged, he claimed the boon of
“And if you think I didn’t have my share of suffering—look here, when

Now that he was alone his face looked older. His gaiety seemed to
      removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters.”

a garret lit by an inefficient oil-lamp. When the party had divided
woman like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, I really wake
one train of enjoyment to me.
having no point of junction with it through a single individual.”
place that I think will suit: it is to undertake the education of the

      “This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much
for it.
Of Henchard they heard nothing. To the liege subjects of Labour, the
quicken his sense of pleasure. He grew more and more enamoured of his


from; and Mr. Rochester carried me in his arms over a plank to the
“Only as far as the Stock Exchange.”
“She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the
      By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet

      “Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have Mr.
blowing in after we passed Merrion. Very jolly it was. Gretta caught a
apartment indicated. The accommodation of the Three Mariners was far
kindness stirred emotion soon: your face became soft in expression,
lady; and as I had always made a point of conversing with Madame
      “My dear, dear Lydia!” she cried. “This is delightful indeed! She
neckcloth, and stilted up on his thick-soled high-lows, eh?”
somewhat overemphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who
“Oh, the Willoughbys, Lord Rugby and his wife, our hostess, Geoffrey
      wretched in the thought of what her sister must endure.
put on her finger.”
your looks and movements will have more vivacity and variety than they
      Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and

      of, the younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable
      enough to admire him; but so we all were. Every girl in or near

“Sure, amn’t I never done at the drunken bowsy ever since he left
Elizabeth saw her friend depart for Port-Bredy, and took charge of
      singing was talked of, and she had the mortification of seeing
in the same labour, and dropping the heavy wood needle she was filling

He was determined that he would not think about what had happened until
“Yes.”
behold, Susan appears!”
the back that he knew so well, entered the garden, and came quietly
grief by imparting it, I, after a disturbed pause, contrived to frame a
me. I had a feeling that she wished me away: that she did not
and bade them good-bye. The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and
one-and-forty wooers.”



only thirty-five mile.”

Her husband, among various physical accomplishments, had been one of
victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer. The
best cooks, dining with the Tories and thinking with the Liberals, in
when the Present is so much surer—the Future so much brighter?”
turbulent emotions possessed her, so I asked what I thought would be
farther and farther every moment.”
_parole d’honneur_.”

misery. Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful. I will watch with
How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow
to carry wash to a pig-trough, that ye use such words as those?”
in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of
bonnet that would go with the gloves she had no dress that would go

best of friends: but such was life.
composition so commanded his heart that Farfrae could play upon him as
examining me every now and then with the corner of her eye. Turning to
“Permit me to introduce to you her Majesty, the Queen.”
undoubtedly.”
up breathless.
      unlike. You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever
when once that will is distinctly known to me. At any rate, it shall be
“Of her, too, he means to rob me!” he whispered. “But he has the right.
clay? My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but
times a wolf was killed, so that at last they all lay dead in a heap
“May you come to me?” he cried bitterly. “Elizabeth, don’t mock me! If
fortnight I was able to leave my chamber.
am glad to see you, ma’am.” Lucetta looked embarrassed, and Henchard
“Who did?”
enthusiasm of attachment. I could comprehend the feeling, and share
deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise
determined to live, and I am satisfied.”
      him,” replied the other. Elizabeth thought this was going pretty
      arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which
what she was doing. Her admiration for the architecture of that front
me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also
stood on my shelf in red and gold like new money from the mint,

on the blank wall opposite, expressed the surprise of a quiet mind

Chapter 22
the daisies, and turned it on her. An unsmiling, a searching, a meaning
vague forget-me-not eyes. She was a curious woman, whose dresses always
the fellow!” cried he; “why, M. Clerval, I assure you he has
Elizabeth-Jane’s cast-off belongings, in the shape of gloves, shoes, a
arrived at a seaport, and there he derived intelligence that persons
morbid suffering to which I was a prey? In the course of the morning
“Your commands shall be obeyed,” said the leader. Then, with a great
      “and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your

proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose!

summer day. I looked at the sky; it was pure: a kindly star twinkled
Reading over what I have written so far, I see I have given the
      meditations which had at length closed her eyes. She could not
      their sense and worth compared with my own. Such I was, from
replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the


because your wicked boy struck me—knocked me down for nothing. I will

“You’re sure you want me to come?”
is moonlight: I will run over to Hay for you with pleasure, if you wish
The woman now gave Dorothy a bed to sleep in, and Toto lay down beside
to be the case, Elizabeth-Jane would have to be got rid of—a
fail.”
“A little Hindostanee.”
“You have got Harry,” said the painter sadly.
reproach, and, opening the door cautiously, went back into the other

      interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last,
manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are
it ended in Jopp’s dismissal there and then, Henchard turning upon his
news spread rapidly throughout the city and everyone came to see the


      him. Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the

order; I am careless; I forget rules; I read when I should learn my
then was in height and proportion. I had never yet seen a being

“I see a white man this time,” said Gabriel.
in the garden where a single man could linger without looking
devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a
had drawn a more marked line of separation than ever between me and her
immediately it was concluded.
interest by anybody in Casterbridge. Donald Farfrae’s gaze, it is true,
I must retain it. I heard the gallop of a horse at a distance on the

pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead; eternal woe and tears she
“You don’t know what’s good for you, my boy,” said Ignatius Gallaher.
wants to get rid of me to-day!” she said sorrowfully as she went. That
bedside and began to dress for dinner.
“Mr. Rochester, I no more assign this fate to you than I grasp at it
Some boys had latterly tried to impart gaiety to the ruin by using the
any good but a good sound whipping. A slap on the hand or a box on the
league from the city. We resided principally in the latter, and the
again, while Toto ran around them and chased the moths and butterflies,
had: big, dark eyes! And such an expression in them—an expression!”
quiet moments you should have no watcher and no nurse but me; and I
“Justly thought; rightly said, Miss Eyre; and, at this moment, I am
clothed hyena rose up, and stood tall on its hind-feet.
him so, and kept his back to the parapet to survey the passers-by, one
at work in my soul which I do not understand. I am practically
she no longer felt strongly the necessity of getting rid of the girl
women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl

That was Ignatius Gallaher all out; and, damn it, you couldn’t but
the back room. Lily, the caretaker’s daughter, did housemaid’s work for
that he was nearly all right. Gabriel asked her whether she had had a
      came into Kent again she would be staying _there_ too. His words

the drive.
provide for themselves. They had lived very little at home for a long
and an impulse of fury against Reed, Brocklehurst, and Co. bounded in
         That I was the hope and the pride.

Everything is related in them which bears reference to my accursed

brown stuff frocks of quaint fashion, and long holland pinafores. It
After some time Dorian Gray looked up. “You have explained me to
      Bingley’s appearance and invitation, the mother and three
most of his female guests were too young to know one from another.


him. His mode of dressing, and the particular styles that from time to
“Yes, yes; I know all that. But what of the resemblance? Who is it
birds had left their nests; long after bees had come in the sweet prime
undertook—one of incessant fatigue, where fatigue kills even the
Chapter 2
“Did you ask to learn?”
appear foolish by her weak note of warning.

instant, had resumed its flow; I then quitted my sheltered corner and
      back, I can call on Lady Lucas and Mrs. Long. Kitty, run down and
brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place

cherish is lawless and unconsecrated. Long since you ought to have
arm. “In that case, let our friendship be a caprice,” he murmured,
what he was going to do was dreadful.
endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts. He wished as much as
return. In this country everyone must pay for everything he gets. If
after a herd of half-wild swine that fed on the mast in the wood. When
face becomes when the man she loves rises upon her gaze like an

“As the poet says: _Great minds are very near to madness_,” said Mr


“‘I think I’ll make the other a little bigger,’” said the farmer. And
      Hunsford Lane, in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and


opportunity lifted his glass to Humanity and, when the toast had been


“Jane, you offered me your shoulder once before; let me have it now.”
meet his eye. During the early part of the morning, I momentarily
by nor herself understood the cottagers. They made many signs which I
blow as my knuckles could inflict; and when I saw that either that or
sending for Jopp, the manager originally displaced by Farfrae’s
The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blind eyes
when, immediately after his entry, she had tried to lisp out to him the
went apart and appeared to weep. I saw no cause for their unhappiness,
forward, started a hare. It bolted for a thicket of alders. Sir
are certain: I can recognise patchwork.”

fate purposely to prove the truth of the adage, that “misfortunes never
      ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything.”
Vane? She was nothing to him now.
the luxuries of a pleasure villa: to have been now living in France,
supreme effort of will.
      “I will go to Meryton,” said she, “as soon as I am dressed, and
frankly offered me before it was earned. My couch had no thorns in it
      generous-hearted boy in the world.”
I now drew near and knocked: John’s wife opened for me. “Mary,” I said,
Miss Baker nodded.
      idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once
fellow-servants below; all the rest of her time was spent in some

“And I thought Oz was a Ball of Fire,” exclaimed the Lion.

      woman’s of superior execution.”
      into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing
“Well, where have you been?” he said to her with offhand laconism.
“And what did he die of so young, Gretta? Consumption, was it?”

inmate.)—Go, then, into the library; take a candle with you; leave the

Strange energy was in his voice, strange fire in his look.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
It had been a mild, serene spring day—one of those days which, towards
I sat back feverish and fagged, I remembered what, in the hurry of
profoundly esteem the one, and freely forgive the other. I should
exposed on a great blue dish while near it on a plate lay a segment of
“Somebody has called for you,” continued Jopp, when Henchard was
      do, but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
overhead—yes, in the room just above my chamber-ceiling—I now heard a
take pains with my accent, and imitating as closely as possible the
I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby’s house I was one

and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship, brought to me a
half-an-hour for dressing the wound, fastening the bandages, getting
      man.
Lord Henry laughed and rose. “I am going to the park,” he cried.

such as ours? Take me away, Dorian—take me away with you, where we can
longing to be restored to her divine Father’s bosom—when a feeble voice
      taken him away, and it was some time before his daughters had

Farfrae checked his horse’s pace; she guessed why. He was thinking that
form within. Oh! With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart!
before finally letting him go. She watched his form diminish across the
      The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet’s ill-humour or

memory; and it was dissimilar to all the others hanging there: firstly,
and softness into his sardonic face; or, better still, without weapons

“Oh, yes, sir! Everybody knew your errand.”

mistaken in his views; if there had been no necessity that his own
He led the way to a small chamber in the rear of the Throne Room, and
she would not have done. He is good and great, but severe; and, for me,
uttering them, his eye had turned on me.
retired to his cabin.
charm and culture, who had fallen, however, into bad habits of silence,
      liked me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his
      Darcy for her brother, from the notion that when there has been
show it to you if you come with me.”
As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several
fault, a tendency to deceit. I mention this in your hearing, Jane, that
ladies swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was an
catching the mad music of pleasure, wearing, one might fancy, her
satisfy St. John till my sinews ache, I _shall_ satisfy him—to the
      and _that_ in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue.”
determination.’
my pleasures.
before them a high wall which seemed to be made of white china. It was
      and consequently unable to accept the honour of their
around. At length he arose, shook the dust from his clothes wearily,
“Right you are,” agreed the policeman, tipping his cap. “Know you next
as the double of the first. Moreover that thoughtless want of foresight
      having settled his account at the inn, nothing remained to be
ugly _woman_ is a blot on the fair face of creation; but as to the
“And then you won’t know me, sir; and I shall not be your Jane Eyre any
come for a series of newer “wonder tales” in which the stereotyped
to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not
proceeded to the spot I saw defendant at another spot, namely, the
air a memento, which ran in lurid hieroglyphics all along the
      sister’s feelings, it was unknowingly done and though the motives
deer for you. You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
don’t let him up if he’s screwed. I’m sure he’s screwed. I’m sure he
      discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly. In his library he had been
waist by a belt of black leather. The great silver buckle of her belt
involuntary “Ugh!”
the mind of God. So he waited, listening for a moment longer to the
      gentlemanlike man, asked her how she had liked him. Her answer
side why their marriage should take place there had ceased to be any
Strasburgh, arrived at Mainz. The course of the Rhine below Mainz
was conscious of her eyes, and her heart went out to him for his
broken. What? Can you walk?”
Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tom, who had
certain that your uncle will be dead ere you reach Madeira, I would

      pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have
Suddenly he came out with a curious remark.
Having said this, he took his hat, which lay on the table beside my
history ridiculed her grave acceptance of her position; and all was
you desponding and sorrowful!” In truth, I was occupied by gloomy
constant inquiry of her mother. She sought further into things than
“But tell him to come in, Mary Jane, and close the door. I hope to
young Jersey woman who had been Henchard’s dear comrade at a critical
pearl-grey silk. “It might pass for the present,” he said; “but he

myself. I only knew that I had seen perfection face to face, and that

Possible. All was changing utterly with a sudden sweep. Religion
a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival.
party at Mellstock, do ye mind?—at old Dame Ledlow’s, farmer Shinar’s
and then, if you can, and if you will, destroy the work of your hands.”
doubtless the character she intended to represent.
pleasant spot, with the usual touch of melancholy that a past-marked
let him enter!”
The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine
Tom threw on both brakes impatiently, and we slid to an abrupt dusty
obliging, and amiable too; and I discovered amongst them not a few
Dent talked with good-natured Mrs. Eshton; and the two sometimes

support life.
softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal
During the day she went out to the Ring and to other places, not coming
began to irritate me, I left the room. I mounted the staircase and
chapter of Simon Called Peter—either it was terrible stuff or the

servant who had read a letter, or overheard a conversation, or picked
kitchen an elderly woman who seemed to be acting as provisional
intervals. Wherever they might go wandering on other days, on
of the closed square piano served also as a sideboard for viands and
“Send me back to Kansas, where my Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are,” she
She vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfshiem stood solemnly in the
It made no difference to me. Dishonesty in a woman is a thing you

accepted Gatsby’s hospitality and paid him the subtle tribute of
His creature: of whom I had made an idol.
find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and
But if, as might happen, there were some discrepancies, to admit the
to make free, and a deliberately formed resolve had been broken.

      overpower them.
and when that was dead, he would be free. It would kill this monstrous
to let anyone smoke a cigarette first?”
close to his. “I knew you were following him when you rushed out from
      steward, who had been brought up by him at his own expense. “He

“Can’t you give me brains?” asked the Scarecrow.
      He observed to her, at a moment when the others were talking
hall was the centre, and over which I had been gazing with delight.
had finished, she would tuck the clothes round me, and twice she kissed
“Do you know Trinity College?”
words were balm: they seemed to imply that it imported something to him
moving-picture magazine, and in the station drugstore some cold cream
he held it in such a manner that it fell slantwise on her face without
“I can offer you no consolation, my friend,” said he;
      going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows.”
“Because, without intending it, I have put into it some expression of
to time a short sentence about himself containing a subject in the
      she continued:

      his character from their own feelings and his servant’s report,
      It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on
alluding but, after reflecting a while, he said:
How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have
time there used to be a field there in which they used to play every

willing to remove them from the seat of contagion. Many, already
      Monday endurable to Kitty and Lydia.
Lady Lynn had remarked, “It is Mr. Rochester’s ward, I suppose—the
to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the
any time; for Thornfield is a fine old hall, rather neglected of late
What he really said was: “Yes … Yes … I’ll see.”

to give old-fashioned people in authority no chance of the initiative.
walls. Entering a portal, fastened only by a latch, I stood amidst a
Eliza; from her she got neither sympathy in her dejection, support in
volumes on banking and credit and investment securities, and they
consciousness of which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed

      but Mrs. Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most
Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place
      showed an admiration of her, which, though more guarded than
breaking out on my forehead. It was Jordan Baker; she often called me
else that I have married! I was so desperate—so afraid of being forced
Clerval; these were “old familiar faces,” but I believed myself
      of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy’s steward,
      Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a

taken up half dead. The remedy was, to thrust them forward into the
a new situation where the salary would be double what I now received
addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt.
you should know the truth.”
“Come back for it, then; I am your banker for forty pounds.”
      proposals. To know that she had the power of revealing what would
well you are thinking of another than they, and that he is not thinking
that plain pocket handkerchief you have there.”



to assist Elizabeth-Jane in her laudable plan.
knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture, but I was the
Elizabeth-Jane, fresh from netting fish-seines in a seaside cottage.
been a fine day enough! Why did ye let me go on, hey?—when a word of
      if I went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it
She laughed and took his arm. “You dear old Jim, you talk as if you
for it when it came before his eyes in the female form? She also might turn
over”—these words were legible in one of these
I owed him faithfulness to the end of one of our lives—foolishly I
and fully, free, unwatched, and almost alone: for this unwonted liberty
      They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
feel her near him in the darkness nor her voice touch his ear. He



“Shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner?”
      marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing she ever did. She seems
would make the shadow of their evil real.
suspended before the high altar.
end, but had come from him as the last defiant word of a despair which
life that was to make his soul would mar his body. He would become
of the office with a heavy step.
certainly, not indicative of vulgarity or degradation.”
either you or I expect.”
“Christ! what a thing I must have worshipped! It has the eyes of a
“From what, Jane?”

      without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that
now?”
      chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to
youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed
deliberately to the other side of the car. I supposed there’d be a
eye—opaque to tenderness, indissoluble to tears—that she was resolved

White porcelain feet, if you like. They have been through the fire, and
“Are we just going to go?” she objected. “Like this? Aren’t we going
was left to stand in the woods until you came to help me. It was a
moralising intrude upon us here tonight. Here we are gathered together
indulge the feeling: and this is the last time I must express it.”
on the commuting train. I was immediately struck by the number of
Gabriel could not listen while Mary Jane was playing her Academy piece,
voluntarily under her yoke of flowers; I tasted her cup. The pillow was

with the new drapery, and fresh carpets, and rich tinted china vases:

spent her fury on your wedding apparel, which perhaps brought back
done. He could not have carried on a comedy of deception with her; he
their whispered repetitions.
“I’ll see it carried into your room,” she said, and bustled out.
to whom some human object for pouring out his heart upon—were it
After a little while Mr. Gatz opened the door and came out, his mouth
      Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten; every

up over a pile of documents. The head itself was so pink and hairless
acquire a more sociable and childlike disposition, a more attractive
please you to dine with me to-day?” he asked, as we re-entered the
by any means an easy thing to attain to. There are only two ways by
square earthwork—earthworks square and not square, were as common as
drab kerseymere coat? I bought largely of him in the autumn when wheat
      I hate such false friends. Why could he not keep on quarreling
quickly down the rickety stairs. From the street door he walked on

once that he was wicked, and she had laughed at him and answered that
was converted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures, her
library.
“Yes.”
      party then gathered round the fire to hear Lady Catherine
      frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine,
      strangers.”
shall get the better of them partially; and in a few weeks, perhaps,

tell you, or do you not? My good Aunt Templeman, the banker’s widow,
staying here, ’twould grieve and wound his natural pride as Mayor of
I have not yet alluded to the visits of Mr. Brocklehurst; and indeed
      moment, turned silently away. Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had
pressed me into her service, and I was all day in the storeroom,

“Tell me something about yourself and the country you came from,” said
      you, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that I can from my heart most

      the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the
      find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking to
seconds succeeded, filled up by the low, vague hum of numbers; Miss
I remembered only, and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on
in just that way, and was not surprised in the least.
they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. They live as we all
and genial in your manner, when you conversed: I saw you had a social
      again, put it out of her power to dance with others. In vain did

over my head. It was echoed from Salêve, the Juras, and the Alps of
companion more and more closely to him, he heard the strange impersonal
When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII.
Mary_ for you.... I’ll say a _Hail Mary_ for you, pa, if you don’t beat
No thought could be admitted of entering to embrace her. I had to
“I’m sick,” said Wilson without moving. “Been sick all day.”
      to buy clothes for his daughter. He protested that she should
“And better?”
earnest concern; “the best of ye hardly honest—not that surely? None of
light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my
she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and



the lane.
      overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the
      not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson expressed her
      The tumult of her mind, was now painfully great. She knew not how
      Pemberley and its owner. “But surely,” said she, “I may enter his
“Do you read your Bible?”
beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone.

over the pages of newly printed books. Nearly every day when his
evening dress, with a knife in his heart. He was withered, wrinkled,

Bessie, when she heard this narrative, sighed and said, “Poor Miss Jane
      As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the
provided for the room—ornate and lavish to her eyes.
“Do as you please, sir.”
of corky but rather impressive claret. “Can’t you talk about crops or
laugh in a hushed, fascinated way. That was in August. A week after I
creditors for it!”
      purpose will be answered.”

shaking back her curls and lifting her eyes to the ceiling, she
      completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but
flowers, and onward into the house. The dining-room to which he
made a mistake in entering the ministry: its uniform duties wearied me

authority for the apprehension of the murderer.
where the Lion lay asleep.
“Impossible!—when I told you how she, on the contrary, deserted me: the
a mistake.”
and sat abstractedly beside it. He had not sat there long when a gentle
“You should not have yielded: you should have grappled with her at
      and that she wished her all imaginable happiness.
snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black
vaguely about the room. She made no answer. “Tell me the truth. I have


assembled the whole school, announced that inquiry had been made into
all now?’”


      nothing but themselves. There is not one of his tenants or
      _their_ housekeeping, I dare say.”
“No, my head is quite empty,” answered the Woodman. “But once I had
then a discussion about so many ounces to the bushel, and drying, and
“Well, I feigned courtship of Miss Ingram, because I wished to render

as a study when he grew somewhat older. It was a large,
Old Jack raked the cinders together with a piece of cardboard and
“My dear Gladys!” cried Lord Henry. “How can you say that? Romance
round for many miles. This pleasant upland was to be the scene of
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in
allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth,
furniture at your sale? He was bidding for no other than Farfrae all

on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and,
a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it. She

them. Though their life was modest they believed in eating well; the
which he valued. He reminds me how often the same accidents have
and shade; for colour had faded with the daylight.
“My darling Blanche! recollect—”
“We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian,” answered Lord
saved up sixpence. We were to meet at ten in the morning on the Canal

door of the return-room.
The Scarecrow listened carefully, and said, “I cannot understand why
had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had
The girl smiled. “Dorian,” she answered, lingering over his name with
“And what a sweet-tempered forehead he has!” cried Louisa,—“so
      leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry
      how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley.
language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some friends,
notice me—because I might pass hours in his presence, and he would
      favourite, and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly
      “Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?”

Rivers—pure-lived, conscientious, zealous as he was—had not yet found
note particulars; I was only aware that they had hoisted me up to the
doubt about it: if you wanted to succeed you had to go away. You could
the house, however, was an easy woman to strangers, and she made no
He looked up at the pantry ceiling, which was shaking with the stamping
wedding-day._”
old pots and pans, ancient boots and shoes, birds’ eggs—all charmingly
Two nights after his friends came to see him. She brought them up to
sigh—letting it off in fragments that he might not hear her. But
shrill and curious in his ears.
curl of her hair. Having looked at these things he closed them up
until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict. For this purpose I will
“I should not wonder if he was quite right there. But, on the other
the edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
multifarious knowledge, guided by an ardent imagination and childish
liberty at the price of caste.
      consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity. A
directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my
he was not so very handsome; but he had a courage and a will of his
“I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,” she said
“I see.”
quite another direction.
rather to be sought than to seek, was yet, in its very carelessness,
and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the feelings of his
where Dorothy had hit it.
Wilson. “That’s why I want to get away. That’s why I been bothering
something of a fright. Again a sort of apology arose to my lips.
They walked into the town together side by side, as they had done when
I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary
sympathy shall I read it in some future day! Even now, as I commence my
“Nonsense, Jim,” she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat.

harm it. The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
my uncle had said the night before, he had taught me a great deal. He

      I could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find
      could he mean? She was dying to know what could be his
them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly
her age. This achieved, she jumped from my knee and said, “Now,

step led up to it. The whole looked, as the host of the Rochester Arms
He was quite peremptory, both in look and voice. The chill of Mrs.

everything that he had lost.

      together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield

front door.

      brother admires her greatly already; he will have frequent
      Collinses live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, I only hope
“Well, this great German cardinal, whatever his name was, was one; and
is convenient, for it keeps those searching eyes of yours away from my
Wessex, on foot. They were plainly but not ill clad, though the thick
Breakfast was over in the boarding house and the table of the

The first phase was the work of Nature, the second probably of
leading soprano in Adam and Eve’s, and Kate, being too feeble to go
stout and ale for the gentlemen and bottles of minerals for the ladies.
where you are.”
      temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day.
Mr. Rochester, having quitted the Eshtons, stands on the hearth as
the adjoining shambles. In a corner stood the stocks.

coarse drapery. The marble basin was removed; in its place, stood a
She thought it undesirable and unnecessary to say anything at present




exultation a new well-being radiated from him and filled the little
      laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I
for the dark roof and hoary walls he called his home; but there was
office; admire and emulate his courage and devotion and vigour;
greenroom. The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on

Meantime, let me ask myself one question—Which is better?—To have
departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day
and unexpected. When I heard this, I was beginning to feel a strange
wavering in my resolutions. Those are as fixed as fate, and my voyage
“You two start on home, Daisy,” said Tom. “In Mr. Gatsby’s car.”

These ladies were deferentially received by Miss Temple, as Mrs. and
virtue of his late position as Mayor. In passing he looked up at her
hospitality they had extended to me, or of suspicion of, or aversion
Their neighbours had turned to listen to the cross-examination. Gabriel


of my absence: the party at the hall was dispersed; Mr. Rochester had
“You will some day, surely?”
smiles.
hat and knotted in a great bow under her chin; and she wore bright
confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps may be of use in
      judge?”
them to one.”
      enquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible to find out
A conjecture that her visitor might be some other person had, indeed,
“Why didn’t you remind him?” said Mr O’Connor.

      speaking of music. There are few people in England, I suppose,
      immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand
“Madeira?” I suggested.
The young man, who could now read the lines and folds of Henchard’s
rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much

story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty
accident, it came up and gravely offered me help. Childish and slender
soon rejoin him in the parlour, withdrew there as to a place of refuge.
that sentence they could decide upon the more practical measures to be
she was backward. “For the present let things be,” she said with some
stop to rest, and so climbed to the top of the fence beside the road
upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned Indians blew through long pipes of
      “Then,” observed Elizabeth, “you must comprehend a great deal in
small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family
strange sense of terror creeping over him. Was the world going to be
I felt an inexpressible relief, a soothing conviction of protection and
observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the
The shock and the incipient pain had partly sobered him.
“All’s right!—all’s right!” he cried. “It’s a mere rehearsal of Much

mannerism of style. No artist is ever morbid. The artist can express

they don’t believe in divorce.”
towards the city. Rain was drizzling down on the cold streets and, when

company of these Continentals. At the control Ségouin had presented him
of home, the dawn of prosperity, acted on Diana and Mary’s spirits like
unduly marked.

with me: it is with this cousin—this St. John. Oh, till this moment, I

“Yes.”
sworn to quit the neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she

all.” Tom rang for the janitor and sent him for some celebrated
blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morning with a surprisingly
for you must be a scene of continual change and excitement, or else the
when the blue sky and halcyon sunshine of the genial spring weather
She started as if she had seen a ghost: I calmed her. To her hurried
brought upon their souls.
veriest rascals on town; and Ingram was mentioning a Georgiana Reed of
forgive the wrong; nor did Farfrae’s snubbed manner of perplexity at

shadow of his house, just out of reach of his hand.
      carried to her by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers
rashly; and I lost. That’s just put me in a strait.
“Jane, your little feet are bare; lie down and cover yourself with my
lodging-houses. Each class would have preached the importance of those
deal table and a kitchen chair: these objects were visible by a very

loathing.
little coward!”
imitation of some Hôtel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one

seemed somehow in the power of one of the meanest of his dependents; so
reader, I could not bear to ask the relief for want of which I was
said Dorian Gray, biting his lip, and with a note of infinite contempt
“Mr. Rochester, I will _not_ be yours.”
were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore

“Miss Oliver is ever surrounded by suitors and flatterers: in less than
altogether optional but for the orders of the landlady, a person who
thus:—

It was on the ninth of November, the eve of his own thirty-eighth
Harry’s views from his friends. It is the only way I get to know of
“Yet I could not live alone; so I tried the companionship of
see sinister faces, the faces of “Wolfshiem’s people,” behind him in
“But well carried out, eh? Don’t you think so?”
comfortably indifferent tone of one whom the matter very remotely
quickly.
      neighbours’ looks, their equal amazement in beholding it. They
swayed and shook in the gusty wind which had followed him in from the

book-case—that was all that it seemed to contain, besides a chair and a
married life is merely a habit, a bad habit. But then one regrets the
      letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been

hurt: a beam had fallen in such a way as to protect him partly; but one
“Spot measuring twelve feet nine inches or thereabouts from where I—”
inside or out. Concluding that something had happened to modify her
      the morning. I will only add, God bless you.
procession could be seen. They passed Farfrae’s, and looked to the end
ambition to lose my life on the post-road between St. Petersburgh and
New events combined to undo him. It had been a bad year for others
carried a few sticks. Having crossed the road he descended into a

Yet as regards the enjoying it the stranger would have been wrong, for
destination? These questions continually recurred, but I was unable to
“How delightful!”

general holiday approached. I now closed Morton school, taking care

some minutes. Presently he addressed me—“Your name, little girl?”
quite frightened when she saw the great pile of shaggy wolves, but the
Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to
not a moment being attainable by Elizabeth or Lucetta in which to open
      her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony
her seat, and took it in silence.
gone. After a silence of a few minutes I heard Mahony exclaim:
regular features, languishing blue eyes, and ringleted yellow hair. The
      yourself more dear to me. But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very
      peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief


      meeting her. Putting away the letter immediately and forcing a
      risk of offending your patroness.”
before her like frightened forest things. Her white feet trod the huge
“A prince!” she cried musically. “What more do you want?”
feel; you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn
Charl shook his head to the zero of childlike ignorance. “No; we

already, the incident of the deepest interest on the journey being the
hired for the evening party, and, lest the convivial instincts of that

and Mrs. Dent, and appeared as merry as any of them. I filled a
several times and waited. No: everything was still. It was merely the
gift is not wanted and would be despised.”
every rock.
burgesses with rights and privileges than from the standpoint of their

hobbling wretches whom he had seen carrying cans and bottles to be
if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning, I should
discover the secret spring of your confidence, and find an aperture in
      entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”
      “You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to
      strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then, we





      dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or
baby act in costume, and champagne was served in glasses bigger than
certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud
“I wonder where did he go to,” said Mr Kernan.
      Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise,
his last phrase as well as his fit of laughter would allow him.
hear a nightingale warbling in a wood half a mile off; no moving form
      cousin should come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks

content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am
      _advantages_ of the match,” cried Elizabeth. “I should never have
Lucetta bowed. She had recovered herself.
      uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the
Scarecrow are destroyed, and the Lion is tied up in your yard. The
would be an invidious one and one beyond my poor powers. For when I

room—not one modern piece of furniture, save a brace of workboxes and a

lighter in weight than the air without that it pulled hard to rise into
which filled me with fear and agitation. During my absence I should


“Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable
      not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been
them, because I knew he would not like to see me weep. Now, however, I
      great. My father and mother believe the worst, but I cannot think

“Miss Furlong, what shall I send you?” he asked. “A wing or a slice of
      uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little
had heard at the theatre, a whispered sneer that had reached his ears
now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktail music, and the opera of
To solve the problem whether her appearance on the evening of the dance
night she is more marvellous.”
at me.
and a little bit of Exodus, and some parts of Kings and Chronicles, and
point of view of form, the type of all the arts is the art of the
under protest. The light music of whisky falling into glasses made an
infant piety.”
      particularly interested them both. The look and behaviour of
fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of
tone, “all during the Christmas.”
ashpit at the end of the garden where nobody ever came and hurried
glared into Mr Holohan’s face.
      anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins, from a conviction
laughed.
the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which

had anything to do with beauty! As if loveliness were not the special

the fire, and looking up slily, whispered, “Just a thought o’ rum in
smile.... People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial. That
      short; and she made the most of the time by visiting about with
transported with some trouble, on account of its size and weight.

other wound in the arm: she has had her teeth here too, I think.”
accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the sun
their dear forms, as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours, and
peninsula was blazing with light, which fell unreal on the shrubbery

      change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she
He withdrew to the back part of the loft, loosened his arm, and flung
      all dancing together at Netherfield.”
near to him?” I asked myself. “Surely she cannot truly like him, or not
palmistry and told me what such people usually tell. My whim is


the foot of the hill, he listened. At first nothing, beyond his own
      “In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to
wand—probably the roller from a piece of calico. Henchard rolled up his
dying, and I might have held my tongue; but I could not. Tell her
“Are you happy here?”

attainments; but her mind was poor, her heart barren by nature: nothing
“I cannot.”
forbade everything which could painfully excite her. Meantime, I got on
that by far the vast majority were forced to live in the world and, to
so long? Take her to bed.”

seen it gape: that something, I, at intervals, beheld still; and with

right.”
up my abode in a religious house near Lisle—a nunnery you would call
the Gothic age was a compilation rather than a design. But its
promising degree. There was an under-handsomeness in it, struggling to

folding her arms.
sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in excuse, his
trepidation. Conventionally speaking he conversed with both Miss
interior, I gathered evidence that the calamity was not of late

cover

side of the room, to settle some point about the deferred excursion to
interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you alone

reflections—a lonely widow man,” said Longways.
      courted you. There—I have saved you the trouble of accounting for

“Oh, some of the papers do. It does not seem to me to be at all
There are no such things. If a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself
broken handle. Others polished the blade until all the rust was removed
“It is exactly in the center of the country, and is ruled by Oz, the
“If you wish,” said the Lion, “I will go into the forest and kill a
“Young Parke’s in trouble,” he said rapidly. “They picked him up when
      and, at the request of the gentlemen, remained at the instrument
      as she finished it. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not
      the chambermaid had been mistaken. On applying to see the place,
This room was chill, because it seldom had a fire; it was silent,
      all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of them, but so
a stifled groan, followed by the dull sound of a heavy fall. Everybody
rich—nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove
“I’m p-paralysed with happiness.”
to him with added horror. Out of the black cave of time, terrible and

herself from seeing him, and thinking of him; succeeding fairly well in
I wrote to Moor House and to Cambridge immediately, to say what I had
days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and more familiar to
      whole bodies, in a variety of capers and frisks, was the first

For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night—
      When she came to that part of the letter in which her family were

In one of the benches near the pulpit sat Mr Cunningham and Mr Kernan.
egos. They are forced to have more than one life. They become more


“Yes, sir.”
      could not prevent its frequently occurring. The united efforts of

someone.”
valour: let their motto be:—Hunt, shoot, and fight: the rest is not
with some interest the note brought into the dining-room and handed to
rose into the air and were out of sight in a twinkling.
whilst I abhor all his kindred, because he has some grains of affection
Eliza actually took the veil, and is at this day superior of the
“You don’t turn sick at the sight of blood?”
was a standing joke with them.
window and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass.
      Mr. Bingley if she could. But Lizzy! Oh, sister! It is very hard


Conventionality is not morality. Self-righteousness is not religion. To
      alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend


trimming of my cottage bonnet. Young ladies have a remarkable way of
      happen. The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or

“I’m very much obliged to you, old man,” said the invalid.
exquisite youth and beauty. Lying on the floor was a dead man, in
shown me extreme kindness. He had caused the best room in the prison
daughters, the eldest, Amy, was rather little: naïve, and child-like in
me with her knuckles, and now I flatter myself I am hard and tough as
Temple had smiled approbation; she had promised to teach me drawing,
resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on Heaven to support
Diana had a voice toned, to my ear, like the cooing of a dove. She
hear? I haven’t seen it all afternoon.”
eight years old, slightly built, with a pale, small-featured face, and
intricate passages, and mount a staircase before we reached her
depressed by a book. Something was making him nibble at the edge of
nest. But Henchard was constructed upon too large a scale to discern
convinced way. “Everybody thinks so—the most advanced people. And I



and none could live to cross it.”
to his assistant. Dorian took the note up and read it carefully. Then
way to both, were nevertheless perseveringly sought out by the

sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to
whispered, as he placed the lamp on the table.
further remonstrance; but as he helped me into the carriage, he looked
      sixteen! My good, kind brother! I knew how it would be. I knew he
peaked cap pushed back on his head and his hair tumbled forward over a

not thoughts befitting me; I will endeavour to resign myself cheerfully to

      countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine
hae’t”; and, as in all such cases of advance, the rugged
      the exercise, and owned she encouraged it as much as possible.
one room to another. As soon as Mary came down I heard the question:
good-night. He went as far as the clock of the College of Surgeons: it
to the Lion’s surprise, he could make no impression on the tin,

to sit down and give her a tune: I played a waltz or two, and she was
know—he was too refined in his mind to know such things!” Thus she
of the waiter, that the Three Mariners was an inn of moderate charges.
“And I want him to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.
contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the
ecstasy. The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
poet. Hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit. The

Woodman and Toto were sitting.

I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in
investigation of his past.”
rose into the air without her.
      “If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came
for being a pack of Radicals. He was a hero to his valet, who bullied
one of the greatest things in modern art. I will give you anything you


She seemed to be tired of my questions: and, indeed, what claim had I
single hasty glance seemed to dive into my eyes.

must have been caused by such a fact, though it had never before
      “I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget
to have something like a right to seek counsel here. Renewing then my
      vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection
his; but for once, and from motives of expediency, I would e’en soothe
say, and I never interfere with what charming people do. If a
die out of Henchard’s breast as time slowly removed into distance the
paths and on everyone who passed through the gardens. He watched the
stood now in the darkness of late night-time on a lonely road, inviting
would be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me
anything more tender. Mrs. Fairfax, I saw, approved me: her anxiety on
slightly falling.
whipping as no boy ever got in this world. He said that there was
      which led behind it to the stables.

right,’ says Rosy, and begins to get up, and I pulled him down in his
have my own way so entirely, and bought me presents, if I had only been
for they immediately took out their handkerchiefs and began to weep
I never let you know anything about this. It would have been
the intervening distance, as well as the remainder of the journey, was
“Yes. The present Mr. Rochester has not been very long in possession of
and guns.” Here the honest but inflexible servant clapped the door to
myself to the fact that with a man of passions such as his, there is no
was a green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and
strangers. With you I would have ventured much, because I admire,
than anything else in the world. Tell me more about Mr. Dorian Gray.
So they oiled his legs until he could move them freely; and he thanked
      damp to her triumph. The marriage of a daughter, which had been
“And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, the athlete?” I inquired.
is better so: Hannah shall go with you.”
smile, laugh—it was nothing; the light of the candles had as much soul
      these transactions. If your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_
hair? Stand up now, and say—How-de-do.”
outside that was much larger than usual; for it seemed that the old
of her chin and till her minute body nearly shook itself asunder
sir.”
garden hedge. Hearing the noise, out ran his wife with the oven pyle,

occupation. The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near
      more difficult of definition. Astonishment, apprehension, and
has broken her leg, and I must take her to the mender’s shop and have
      While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to
sty and a clear pool of water. One part was open, and by that I had
He had hardly gone down the staircase when she dropped upon the sofa
of his withdrawal from the negotiation Donald mentioned Henchard’s

men drank from them simultaneously. After having drunk each placed his
“We don’t go around very much,” he said; “in fact, I was just thinking
superior, who cannot possibly intend to marry her; and it is madness in

several professors of the university. In doing this, I underwent a
Deliberation caused sundry attacks on the moss of adjoining walls with
greater incongruity than Shallow and Silence themselves. But his rough
The master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the
devotion, but, full of her reading, she cited Rosalind’s exclamation:
like the beat of a hammer.

was very charming, in short, even to a cool observer of her own sex
September 7th.
gentlemen sat in the benches, having hitched their trousers slightly
“No.”
      turned her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr.
Henchard from following up the investigation with the loud hue-and-cry
well-informed it shall be by no fault of my own,” she would say to
enjoyment.
hear.”


The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and
return; eager to disburthen my mind, and to seek of him the solution of
and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very
      half deserved.”
Curiosity, earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature,
frankness, as correct as cordial, with which he treated me, drew me to
He went often to her little cottage outside Dublin; often they spent
expostulations of the two feeble old constables, until there remained
      families I have been the means of supplying in that way. I am
marshes. There was nothing to look at from under the tree except
“Only such books as came in my way; and they have not been numerous or

and began to count the links of the gold chain which was extended
Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town.
with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I
      spirits which had seldom been depressed before, were now so much
generously completed the overthrow of his tottering credit. And now, in
“You may remember me?” said his visitor, seating himself.
took the sponge, dipped it in, and moistened the corpse-like face; he
land.
regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while the happiness I hoped for
      surprised you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man

      If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never disgrace

at the thick-falling snow; you listened to the sobbing wind, and again
“Not very well,” she said, glad that he had divined this without her
then I can do what I like. I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take

      conciliate her.
      The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the
about, as I supposed, the dinner-hour. I had eaten with relish: the


      The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named
“I shudder at the thought of being free.”
and fringed along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in
Such a burden to be left on my hands—and so much annoyance as she
“But, however that may be, I can only ask you tonight to take the will
few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed

sit down to. He had walked the streets long enough with friends and

She stirred herself, put back the curtain, and I saw her face, pale,
to the lively regions of the kitchen and housekeeper’s room, generally

rose and placed it in his hand.
quarter of an hour before.
“O, no, no, no!” said Father Keon quickly, pursing his lips as if he
I used, to get matters regarding the legacy settled as I wished. My
      forgive _his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_.”
invoked to aid me. Often, when all was dry, the heavens cloudless, and
as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him.

Gateshead. You start—did you hear a noise? I daresay it is only a rat

matter?”
he saw the unhappy sufferer he said, in answer to Elizabeth’s mute
coarse, but it was wholesome; and they procured a sufficiency of it.

pansies, mingled with southernwood, sweet-briar, and various fragrant
“I didn’t mean to interrupt your lunch,” he said. “But I need money
the produce of your garden? I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and

      shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she
“A very rich and powerful one: she sang delightfully; it was a treat to
      “I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. He
“And damn the thing I ever got out of it,” said Corley.
would not take that freedom. I answered—
Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they
communicated to some being higher than man—perhaps to pass through
“There is no dishonour, no breach of promise, no desertion in the case.

“Don’t ask me,” said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of the whole
She flushed. “What do you mean, Jim?” she asked.
mere painted scene to him.
would need the oil-can badly.”
position, and Daisy was flattered. Doubtless there was a certain


      had received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress,
experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon
who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die,
      qualifications. As I must therefore conclude that you are not
Chapter 11
was the name of her house: a neat orderly spot, I was sure; though I
we cannot read it without a dictionary to help us.”

Casterbridge for two or three weeks to come, and should not mind seeing
girls, and behind them the younger children crouched in groups,
He held out his hand; I gave him mine: he took it first in one, then in
      and in a private conference with Elizabeth related the event of
it as usual. I shall keep out of your way all day, as I have been
difficult. But it will be different now. You are going to a new world,
effort on effort, though in vain: meantime, I was mortally afraid of
and all shook hands with them until their arms ached.
      to me there were stronger impulses even than pride.”
away.”
intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford,
those of the Munchkins.
Then I heard footsteps on a stairs, and in a moment the thickish
around the office—he knew every object in it before morning—and from
      seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him,
After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very



towards her and said to those who were near him in the manner of a
 Clay
poor William.”
sash, and went out upon the balcony. Elizabeth immediately followed,
looking quite away from the door, if she appeared at it, his cheek
spending ’em, for I shouldn’t like it. And open the windows as soon as

again. While Elizabeth-Jane sits waiting in great amaze at the young
man has in his stillness of knowing the busy one better than he knows

“I rather think not, sir: I should have more pleasure in staying with
Crossing his lawn, I saw that his front door was still open and he was
not seen him for so many years, and we are so—little allied to him!”
make them comfortable.
the wind rose: it blew yesterday evening, not as it blows now—wild and
Do let me carry that basket for you. I shall not mind it, for I can’t
his slight frame bent under the weight. Occasionally she would hear a
herself—that he was fully able to take care of her. As a matter of
      “You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence

clothes could hide the enormous power of that body—he seemed to fill
if I can. The sufferings of this mortal state will leave me with the
      who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister’s feelings
“It is Julia Severn,” replied Miss Temple, very quietly.
      do otherwise than to decline them.”
“What did you say, Miss?”
lively the intention was to give her the run of the young men. Besides,
yard. But Abel was missing. Before either of the other men could run to
are, and will be what we will be. As for being poisoned by a book,
which might overpass that limit; which might reach the busy world,
She was awakened by a shock, so sudden and severe that if Dorothy had
position of second fiddle, and only scrape harmonies to his manager’s

setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new

life.” He was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked
Dorothy looked at him curiously. His head was quite bulged out at the
was raised above the stalks of corn by means of the pole stuck up its
brow.
      friends; and now we are better.”
      “Certainly not.”
box, my Lord?’ he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an

“It was only a fancy,” Farfrae murmured. “I wouldna refuse if it is the
      contemplation of the greatness before him, and constantly bowing
eye, and as soon as it was finished I found myself looking at him and
their way to the next hour before the whole business of the old one was
      “Oh! hang Kitty! what has she to do with it? Come be quick, be
      whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the
something in the clear, pine-scented air of that winter morning that
penetrating: I expected their eyes to fall, their colour to rise under
Mariners Inn. The rear was usually brought up by the choir, with their
Witch, as well as a wicked one, and she soon made up her mind how to
By a strenuous effort, after leaving Henchard she calmed herself in
of a Lothario, too!”

horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became
They sat in adjoining windows of the same room in Lucetta’s great stone
thoroughly understand him, in short—at least, I don’t: but it is of no

Mayor walked on through the tunnel-shaped passage into the garden, and

    “My lady fair,
maid-servant next door, who spoke from an upper window across the

“Like heath that, in the wilderness,
      fault—because I will not take the trouble of practising. It is
chained in an eternal hell. My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of
in his. I had not intended to love him; the reader knows I had wrought

have been just the same if there had been no Henchard in the world!”
summer? We’re going to stay there a whole month. It will be splendid
never push me about, or scold, or task me unreasonably, as she was too
      communication with the Collinses, the report, she concluded, had
had changed before my eyes into something significant, elemental, and
      this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was

While he was sitting with her on the side of the bed Mary came to the
“About three weeks.”
alleviate; yet your presence will, I hope, revive our father, who seems
“I told you I went there,” said Gatsby.
      had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and
nothing but the great gray prairie on every side. Not a tree nor a
second floor, where two windows bloomed with light among the vines.
midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them. A long
on the outskirts of the city where its members duly qualified
see that everything must be as you say. And I am going to look upon you
was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling
know of her character. I am well acquainted with the accused. I have lived

what. It seemed to me that some event must follow the strange cry,
He nodded.
      But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to
dominant intellectual passion was for science. At Cambridge he had
“Well,” he said, after some minutes’ silence, “it is strange; but that
her candle a faint perfume arose.
      have all my expectations of pleasure realised. A scheme of which
should take him out of the dead blank which his loss threw about him.
reason with her mother and had induced her to join a league. She was

all slowly, he could find out what that thing was …
      laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by
“But before me: if I, indeed, in any respect come up to your difficult



to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you

      no idea of there being so much design in the world as some
and drew a careful outline. I promised myself the pleasure of colouring

nothing in harmony with Mrs. Reed or her children, or her chosen

as I was saying—listen to me, Jane! You’re not turning your head to
He turned to the right towards Capel Street. Ignatius Gallaher on the
“promised impossibilities and performed nothing. The modern masters
      as soon as she allowed him to speak. “You either choose this


little distance, and then stood still.

 XXXI
However, according to the strict rule of the road it appeared that

      lady’s attention, which could furnish her with an occasion of
      “Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of
the forest, and which I feared would wither if I left them till the

had been driving. He might think he saw a connection in it—he might
whether I would ever speak to her or not or, if I spoke to her, how I
up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be
had made him a judge over others? He had said things that were
tight corner:
for some people in New York that had a silver service for two hundred

after all. The awning was set up again; the band was called out from
herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now
      the family with her stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
      table could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She
place.’
The teachers looked at her with a sort of surprise.
years ago, because I didn’t know Daisy then—and I’ll be damned if I
had a cold. His sisters were gone to Morton in my stead: I sat reading
had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death
He thought for a moment. “Can you remember any great error that you

however, they had entered the house a cry of “Ahoy” from the moor led
was very pleasant or desirable: no magnet drew me to a given point,
digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance
understanding it.
conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me. Why had I not
critically. The sight reminded Mrs. Henchard-Newson and her daughter
through the windows. He read on by its wan light till he could read no
      on one side. Elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she
his bankruptcy, were stirred into activity again when the new tenant

Chapter 47

      follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.”
like a man instead of: ‘O, now, Mr Henchy, I must speak to Mr
landlady was unfastening it the conversation about the skimmington was
character.”
careful.”
      untidy, so blowsy!”
this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will have

suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the

     _I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls
join her, which Mrs. Henchard mechanically did, her attention being
honest homeliness which mostly prevailed there, the two styles of dress

demurely at her feet; nothing in short was wanting to complete the

she began to reconstruct the interview which she had had the night

“Here, dearies.” She groped around in a wastebasket she had with her
words—‘Where are you?’
practical largeness of view had oozed out of him.

      “I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley! How can Mr.
“I got to West Egg by a side road,” he went on, “and left the car in
Argus eyes whenever possible admirers are within ken.
      abominable. How shall we punish him for such a speech?”
man resuscitated thenceforward.
      of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms,

      competition in which we stood—the sort of preference which was
      reason of his silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire.
In the clear embers I was tracing a view, not unlike a picture I
      and were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what
      amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party. In a moment they
it, even toward people he liked—and there were men at New Haven who



      the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they gave way only to the
Doran and then catch short twelve at Marlborough Street. She was sure
      her sister. “My dear father, I congratulate you.”
painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to me
      right to the pleasures of youth as the first. And to be kept back
radiance through some window-curtain, or through the chink of some door
      him, as well as a possible advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped

with his yard of clay.
Everyone loved Elizabeth. The passionate and almost reverential


When they reached the castle Dorothy said to the Winkies:
      added that he should not write again till he had something of
gipsy’s appearance to trouble one’s calm. She shut her book and slowly
transaction between us some twenty years agone—’tis that I’ve called
      could observe the three ladies before her composedly. Lady
All was over at last, even her regrets for having misunderstood him on
while Corley kept beside her with his long stride. They did not seem to






empty, standing at the counter and trying to appear at his ease while
he really believed it was she who had made last night’s hideous
refused to kiss me. You intend to make yourself a complete stranger to
We said nothing further to each other. I was still considering whether
being so; and that of the lives that had crossed his own, it had been
      “Nay,” said Elizabeth, “this is not fair. _You_ wish to think all
      intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?”
find a pleasure in loving and cherishing a faded graven image, shabby
Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory
      of his heart. But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us his
the aforesaid reason—the dismal privacy which the earthen circle

house till everything was arranged: and, indeed, the bare idea of the

“But do you never single one from the rest—or it may be, two?”

and was soon out of sight.
hay-dealing experiences, in which he had outwitted a sharper who had
comrades had suffered largely from warping, splitting, fading, and
The girl addressed was trying, unsuccessfully, to slump against my
did just now, as he put aside his snow-wet hair from his forehead and
that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to
      dance at Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on
judgment and feelings to decide. “Yes,” said Elizabeth,

ever read. It seemed to him that in exquisite raiment, and to the
Helen was talking to herself now: she had forgotten I could not very
voice! _The Prisoner of the Vatican_, he called him. I remember Crofton
      object; Miss Bingley’s eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy,
change. The intense vitality that had been so remarkable in the garage
with an amusement park. Sometimes they came and went without having
The afternoon came on wet and somewhat misty: as it waned into dusk, I
way to Gatsby’s house. So by that time he knew Gatsby’s name.
triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should
      was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation
swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him
unanimously.
me; if ye really pity me, crush sensation and memory; let me become as
that she must have been somewhat excited to do this; moreover, she must
“My name is Henchard.”
death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through
would lodge me without money and without price. I had one morsel of
of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable
      fortunate in his patroness. Lady Catherine de Bourgh’s attention
the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire. A white dust—tremulous
lower classes were called by the teachers: repetitions in history,
him?”
they moved down the road.



      him. He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and
to.”
      by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair;
“Why—not exactly.”

were projected far away, those thrown by the felloe of each wheel being

“My plans are fixed,” said the young man, in negative tones. “I have

persons or things: the good lady evidently belonged to this class; my
myself that question as I saw him turn to her and look at her; and, as
A young man in a cycling-suit cleared his way through the ring of
      confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of
been so stern to him in his boyhood. The picture had to be concealed.
the poor Scarecrow, they could have been very happy.

      Thoughtlessness, want of attention to other people’s feelings,
seemed spread over the closely-printed pages. I returned it to her; she

to treat me for all my trouble about ye?”
“What are you doing in the dark?” asked a voice.
with as brilliant tints as my palette could yield, and as glittering



“You’ve got to pull yourself together,” he said with soothing
things they had said and done when they were mere children; described

illustration of that honesty in dishonesty which had characterized her
young fellow’s voice; and after a pause, during which some operation

wish that she might become your wife. Nay, you may have met with another
account of it which I shall be ashamed of to my dying day. It made such

length on the ground. His companions came up to assist him, and by the
you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it
heart it may do so for many and many a long year to come—the tradition
animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all,
this led, separating the front and back rooms of the third storey:

      leave the trouble of finding a subject to him.
      As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was

The trial began. After about thirty seconds Weathers brought his
made to be worshipped.”
should tremble in this way when I saw him, or lose my voice or the

me incomprehensible: in the present instance he took no notice of my
can eat when excited with the thoughts of a journey; nor could I.
      it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for
drive, and came upon the long front of a house: candlelight gleamed
there in peace to-night, though we should never more be destined to sit
But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
Breakfast was over, and none had breakfasted. Thanks being returned for
A chorus of voices invited him to begin his own supper and Lily came
      Morris immediately; that he is to take possession before
      “I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and
      “What an excellent father you have, girls,” said she, when the
      for a partner.”
      could, she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related
      character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had

Ignatius Gallaher turned his orange tie and slate-blue eyes full upon
doors, endowing with complete isolation the figure of the host, who
      amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room. In an hurried
with you, Dorian. The world has cried out against us both, but it has
able to see the pictures, which was dreadful, or so many pictures that
I hardly know whether I had slept or not after this musing; at any
“Ditto here,” said Lenehan.
to be misjudged by so good a woman.”
years. Gayelette made up her mind that when he grew to be a man she


him arrange my room for me? He settles my flowers for me sometimes—that
_December_ 21_st_, 1847.

Nance did not reply, but every one knew what she meant. The ideas
      she read on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair,
and pleasure there was a cause, to which it now becomes my task to
      She had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of

      enough to live upon without some help. Any place would do, of
The lad flushed up and, going to the window, looked out for a few

exult in the agony of the torturing flames. The light of that conflagration
love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding. I was

“If that will be _your_ married look, I, as a Christian, will soon give

tram and every evening walked home from the city after having dined
      which her marriage had given her.
stiffly.
suggested rather than revealed what was underneath. But his passion had

      to her ideas. That he was not a good-tempered man had been her
care. Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why
      Rosings.

“To me? Bless you, child; what an idea! To me! I am only the
was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse
o’clock.”
was any special significance in it. He believed that Mrs. Wilson had
overwhelming contrast. Your words have delineated very prettily a
neat, in learning their tasks regularly, in acquiring quiet and orderly
fatigue. She had, however, not gone to rest, but sat in the bedside
      acquaintance every day; but for your sakes, we would do

“That village a few miles off?
      a very confined and unvarying society.”
      “We have not determined how far it shall carry us,” said Mrs.
populous, less picturesque; more stirring, less romantic.
“Entirely.”
congeries of barns and farm-steads, there was a less picturesque side
seized me?”
sipped her ale near him.
“Very well, then, look upon yourself as elected. We have had older men

ask him to her house. Captain Sinico encouraged his visits, thinking
Then we saw the tent—that must have stood more this way.” He walked to
      “How strange!” cried Elizabeth. “How abominable! I wonder that
as smart a thing as ever he heard. Farrington stood a drink in his
consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of
      “I have heard much of your master’s fine person,” said Mrs.

better my condition if I could; and an assurance added, that as I had
But Newson did not see anything of her that morning. Having stood still
out into the hall. There he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread of the
I took it from her hand: she pointed me out the parlour door. The tray
      studious. In the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one
not much older than the girl now beside her. But she had refrained. An
“How can I get there?” asked Dorothy.
      “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late
      the town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in
      incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an
I looked at Miss Baker, wondering what it was she “got done.” I
to give the passenger’s hat a smart buffet off his head, as from the
altered.
      I have been kinder than towards myself.”
struggling with tears for some time: I had taken great pains to repress
again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to
Elizabeth could now have been writ handsome, while the young lady was
clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of
shortly unclosed his eyes; he groaned. Mr. Rochester opened the shirt
“Shall I run after them, and ask them about him——”
She was an old garrulous woman, a pawnbroker’s widow, who collected
taking place outside. Finally he got up and informed me, in an
      so full of both. I know you will do him such ample justice, that
on the table.
Her mother assented, and down the street they went.
      Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as
hers—this present life and passing world suffice to me. Hush! say
gallery; but, unfortunately, he marred the good impression by wiping
“Gatsby?” demanded Daisy. “What Gatsby?”
this novel and piquant acquaintance: besides, I was for a while
      papa to take us all there for the summer! It would be such a

the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people.”
broad steps, and looking through, I thought I caught a glimpse of a

affections and sympathies have a most powerful hold on you. I am sure
I.O.U.‘s for him. They were devils of fellows but he wished they would

harshly; “keep at a distance, child; or go in to Sophie!” Continuing
showman introducing a prodigy to an audience:

      really rejoiced at it. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an
I sat down near him, but told him I could not eat.
      “From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must
Lord Henry walked across the room, and sitting down by Dorian Gray,
young men whose spirits seemed to be at present well above the level of

Mayor for the year, being absent, the corn-merchant took the big chair,

      “I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,” said Lady

“Yes, sir. One in number, sir.”
stated, he was enabled to live; people supported him with their backs

      half hour.
been carried down the evening before, stood corded at the door. It
      from him. His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a
as a child.”
sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should know that the
doorway, they paused and whispered among themselves, as if afraid to

      brother—very, very proud. As a child, she was affectionate and
corner of the house where the Wicked Witch had been lying.
anybody.”
is worn to nothing. How very thin, and how very bloodless!”
      Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to

      been at leisure to be idle, she would have remained certain that
      everybody they had seen were discussed, except of the person who
rushed out as if in pursuit.

if one wishes to be a prig or a Puritan, one can flaunt one’s moral
      without him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send
scarcely be imagined: and it was thus she would enter the rustic
      “I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?”

as something large, secure and fixed; and though she knew the small
      their boxes, work-bags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition
“That’s a great expression of yours, isn’t it?” said Tom sharply.
that kind?”
      ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the
Now the Three Mariners was the inn chosen by Henchard as the place for
The morning was still dark. A dull yellow light brooded over the houses
fairy place, so bright to my novice-eyes appeared the view beyond. Yet


willing tool, made him, at the same time, commercially as unsafe a
Swastika Holding Company,” and at first there didn’t seem to be anyone

      whenever Miss de Bourgh looked that way.
quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life. I now related
unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules.”
hitherto known as Elizabeth-Jane Newson, was going to call herself
      “Shall you ever have courage to announce to Lady Catherine what
      walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and
insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but I

food was distressing: with the keen appetites of growing children, we

“threaped.” She did not know where there was such a family for being
shuttered for the repose of Sunday, swarmed with a gaily coloured
“Before God?”
“Miss,” said a servant who met me in the lobby, where I was wandering
“Come along with me for a minute,” I said; “I’ve got to say hello to
One thing specially surprised me, and that was, there were no

each end; she surveyed the two rows of girls silently and gravely. Miss
the face, “we have each of us a secret. Let me know yours, and I shall
her alone, and had very little private conversation with her. She
swimmingly together, deriving much entertainment, if not much


duchess vaguely. “I must confess that most of them are extremely
      that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness.
malice and treachery. I thought with a sensation of madness on my
I suppose he’d had the name ready for a long time, even then. His
      one else could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I
“Yes.”
his cheek; I hear their mutual whisperings; I recall their interchanged
the Scotchman’s gave unmixed satisfaction were the members of the
      suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short
Academy and gave a pupils’ concert every year in the upper room of the

one minute to make your peace—no more. I go on board to-night for
opening; they entered, and the curtain fell behind them.
they would rise, and the irids would fix on him. I looked, and had an
arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.


articles in the shop-windows those that had been rejected in the
      had looked forward with impatient desire did not, in taking
      following account of my actions and their motives has been read.
Accustomed to John Reed’s abuse, I never had an idea of replying to it;
had flown to the other extreme, and (in Farfrae’s opinion) were selling

my enemy. But your direction was northwards. You took me on board when my
I assured her we were alone.
      do not particularly like your way of getting husbands.”
windows downstairs and the pink glow from Daisy’s room on the ground
“Well, the fact is—the truth of the matter is that I’m staying with

and phrases, without thinking that the omission arises from insolence?”
employment; but whose business was it to provide me with employment?
Elizabeth, who would perhaps have been more alarmed at this than her
resolved, I suppose, since I would not have jewels, to cheat me into
out of the weariness of school-life for one day at least. With Leo

      while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been little. Eager



Henchard again suspended his words, and then his voice came
Wonderful civility this! It emboldened me to ask a question.
“’Tisn’t worth my old while to think of another husband,” continued
It was reckless of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him.
ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting with the same

cried Lady Narborough from the door. “If you do, we are sure to
countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the
tipped out a little of her warm human magic upon the air.
was hung with rosy cloud, which seemed permanent, yet slowly changed.
I have often wished that Miss Eyre had been sunk in the sea before she
you must repay me. After that I did not care for you so deeply as
      love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as
in New York” was really less surprising than that he had been
for them, and began to eat them listlessly. They had been plucked at

not extract its food; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived
and Mrs. Fairfax’s description. The noble bust, the sloping shoulders,
and Lady Lynn, and getting spoilt to her heart’s content.
      mother’s words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a
She looked cursorily at Henchard and the second magistrate, and
soon withdrew, for I had talked as much, and sat up as long, as my

was she like? Whom did she marry? You have known nearly everybody in
Lord Henry laughed. “The reason we all like to think so well of others
“It’s just a crazy old thing,” she said. “I just slip it on sometimes
said to her husband, “Michael, how about our lodging? You know we may

I remember but little of the journey; I only know that the day seemed
There appeared, within three feet of him, a form clad in pure white—a

you, if ye will stay so late.”
itself into “hide-and-go-seek” or “sardines-in-the-box” with all the
affection than he could give he made a point of showing some semblance
the reading and conversation went on. This was very singular. She could
“There, then—‘Off, ye lendings!’” And Mr. Rochester stepped out of his


      most incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in his favour

      of temper than her sister, and with a judgment too unassailed by
Sunday morning, when he observed that the blinds were all down. He rang

skipping on the small, like running up and down ladders—“Miss M’Leod of
thrown away in that choir. But she never would be said by me.”
quarter.
fruiterer in New York—every Monday these same oranges and lemons left
I followed, when I could, the courses of the rivers; but the dæmon
      day that where there is affection, young people are seldom
      Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
where the music was playing.

affection and feelings more potent still. St. John looks quiet, Jane;
      meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or
rapidly developed itself. Their amazement at me, my language, my rules,
order. Of course, St. John Rivers’ name came in frequently in the
than strain my heart; I will go forward and meet him.”
the old bull-stake, the old cock-pit, the pool wherein nameless infants
Newson to Henchard was now accounted for fully. It furnished another
for the place where it would be easiest to get into the forest.
would say, alluding to Aunt Kate and Aunt Julia: “Ladies and Gentlemen,
seemed to him more mysterious and gay than other houses, so his idea
His presence here seemed to explain Lucetta’s walk that way. Donald saw
      circumstance which must prejudice her against him.
a wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about
      and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many
“It’s so hot,” she complained. “You go. We’ll ride around and meet you
suit.
violent thrusting movement of his powerful arms pushed his way
entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed
“Miss Jane, take off your pinafore; what are you doing there? Have you

does not admire it. The only excuse for making a useless thing is that
but I shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which


      extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a
is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail

his lips as if to speak: he closed them again. I felt a little
wonder, for he was as big as a small horse.
      judgment of her situation. The note was immediately dispatched,
is the only thing he is fit for.”
to her. She is to be my wife.”
“Oh! he has a fine bass voice, and an excellent taste for music.”
Aunt Kate frowned severely and nodded her head at every word.
said that in a month you would be his wife.”
“But what is the matter? Of course I won’t look at it if you don’t want
“A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of
at this. Therefore she was not surprised when one day Mr Holohan came

      ever hear Darcy mention the circumstance, when you were in Kent?”
      Mrs. Phillips’s vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax

      it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that
“Quite well,” he enunciated; and, with a bow, he left the gate. She
      hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who
      something now, Mr. Darcy. _I_ talked about the dance, and _you_
      relations for whom there was no need to blush. She listened most

      receipt of this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with

      farthing less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to



      pause, her companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with

“Oh-h!” She looked at me over again. “Will you just—What was your

“Indeed!”

“What, Elizabeth?” he cried, as he seized her hand. “What do you
Elizabeth-Jane was fond of music; she could not help pausing to listen;
small pieces.”



      “Most willingly.”
      keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.”

      quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?”
“Did I tell my name to anybody last night, or didn’t I tell my name?”
“Well, Jane, do you know me?” asked the familiar voice.

He put me off his knee, rose, and reverently lifting his hat from his
I reflected, and thought, on the whole, I had. It was a comfort; but,
will,—were not beautiful, according to rule; but they were more than
glad to hear Lucetta’s words about remaining.
“You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be
awoke to hear the wind rave in furious gusts, and the rain fall in
whisky distorted things, because it didn’t make any sense to me.
      recommendations was now added that of general unreserve. The

thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my


virility. He heard a conversation below, the opening of the coach-house
hope, in thought? No, that is well: while you draw you will not feel

is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned
knew what Mr. Edward would do; and I was certain he would not wait long
keep the narrow and narrowing—the tranquil, hidden office of English
      Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing,
Barbary Coast, Gatsby left too.
A stout, middle-aged man, with enormous owl-eyed spectacles, was
dinner was served in two huge tin-plated vessels, whence rose a strong
I still be subject to these visitations of the devil, when I try so

for we must take it all as it is. Now I have called to ask ’ee
“What’s for my dinner?”
      conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family. Jane heard
artist. This evening she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress.”
incarnation was complete.
whisper sentences of this sort at my bedside—
“There’s no mistake about it,” said Mr M’Coy, “if you want a thing well
by unkempt fierce and beautiful girls. Though there was nothing wrong

life. Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been
I had. He informed me then, that for some time he had fancied the
yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature. I have always been my
      “I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They

Oxford. “No, I won’t send it anywhere.”

cleaned out and Associated Traction would have to fluctuate profitably
shepherd, did you, Jane?”
him indistinctly of somebody or something which passed from his mind as

“Where? You, sir, have placed it before me.”
entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty. A woman was
should be afraid to marry,” she pleaded. “Really afraid! And it was not
“We did visit her,” said the Scarecrow.
“Have you a sponge in your room?” he asked in a whisper.


her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly. My
woke me up, and said: “What Gatsby?” and when I described him—I was
for a mad passion. A few wild weeks of happiness cut short by a
      possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as
“I am now worse off than when I first met Dorothy,” he thought. “Then,
“It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of
head, that he wasn’t going to give her his hard-earned money to throw
“This was then the reward of my benevolence! I had saved a human being
      anxious to re-establish a character. We must not make him
“Yes, yes. Market—business! I wish there were no business in the

human side came to the fore. As soon as they had wandered about they
      “He could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt,
hours of lonely, maddening reflection. Nay, Henry might stand between
with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against
“No one knows it but you four—and myself,” replied Oz. “I have fooled
frame, large features, and commanding voice; his general build being
“American novels,” answered Lord Henry, helping himself to some quail.
      regard it, that she would never look in it again.
The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of
“What’s that you were saying, Tom?” asked Mr M’Coy.
      have been wearied by long expectations.
      regarded herself with an interest, if not quite so tender, at
brows; looked down, smiling at me, and stroked my hair, as if well
“Now,” said he, “go to the other side of the bed while I order his
She was perplexed. “Shall we go and see it together?” she said.
      o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the
“I’ll come and wimble for you instead of him, if you will allow me,”
      successful love; for Mrs. Bennet, having dawdled about in the
      “The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger.”
under a roof. I half believed her; for I felt indeed only bad feelings


      in his power to give her fresher intelligence of her former

he seem to you not likely to befriend us? I thought he looked a
“You did the proper thing, Holohan,” said Mr O’Madden Burke, poised
He has taken away everything from me, and by heavens, if I meet him I

      were a great many pretty women in the room, and _which_ he


me my lovely heart. I should like to cry a little because Oz is gone,
that I couldn’t come down again. It went way up above the clouds, so

grew more urgent in requiring their accomplishment: and I, like a fool,
dead-weights from the house. Dear mama, there, as soon as she got an
He felt her bow her head in acknowledgment that she understood. After a

the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. His romantic,
 An Encounter
clergyman and leaned back in his chair.
where he seemed to feel a sense of the strangeness for a moment; then
guest was the subject of their conversation. I ardently desired to
“And you can work on muslin and canvas?”
      weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be
“And Rosamond Oliver?” suggested Mary, the words seeming to escape her
shutters, I beheld the wretch—the miserable monster whom I had
weeks before. But what had amused me then turned septic on the air
      At five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past
when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach of the sea to
you go—embrace me, Jane.”
to bear this injustice with patience.
“Back out,” he suggested after a moment. “Put her in reverse.”
“All of you, Mr. Erskine?”

at the back of that trader’s van; and as the other passengers, mainly
and wild wood into some cheerful fields: I described to him how

      thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so
Shoes which the girl always wore. Her bees and her crows and her wolves
the mean gratification of vengeance: he had forgiven me for saying I
“‘_Jeune encore_,’ as the French say. Is he a person of low stature,
solicitor’s office. Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the
      behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in
      their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine,
fault than her misfortune. She decided to employ persuasion—not with
spoke or took off her bandage. There was a pause for a few seconds; and
nonsense in public places before. A joke is a joke, but you may make it
      Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the
      not to repine;—but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing
“Yes; just as if you were speaking Greek. I feel I have adequate cause
his journey to London might be followed, even sooner than he now
adumbrating itself again upon his mouth. “In spite of all her
      up for ever.”
      of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of
the door. Americans, while willing, even eager, to be serfs, have
      declared herself not at all offended; but he continued to

misconceptions away.
      “Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not
will proclaim, I will prove your innocence. I will melt the stony
deformity.
early, to attend a public meeting at Millcote, as Mrs. Fairfax informed
time.
sold his business to Farfrae, who was forthwith about to start as corn

“Yes.”
“What do you disapprove of, Mr. Rivers?” I asked.
perish of want at your door, and took me under the shelter of your
“‘Near this spot.’
the _Sorrows of Werter_, besides the interest of its simple and affecting
“Don’t go to the theatre to-night, Dorian,” said Hallward. “Stop and

Elizabeth-Jane looked wistfully at her questioner. She found that her

the luxurious chestnut trees, now delicate in leaves of a week’s age,
when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain
contented, James, with your sea-faring life,” she said. “You must
      subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left
      hours to her amusement. But she is nothing to me now. She is a
she went across to him dutifully.
in the groove of the Naas Road. At the crest of the hill at Inchicore

He said this as he helped me to alight from the carriage, and while he
coldly. Certainly they were pretty and the face itself was pretty. But
the respectable master-tradesmen occupying the seats of privileges in
his hardness and despotism. Having felt in him the presence of these
sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan!

contradicted another. Chance has meted you a measure of happiness: that

knee-caps, ploughmen’s leggings, villagers’ pattens and clogs.
Still will my Father, with promise and blessing,
“I remember reading,” said Mr Cunningham, “that one of Pope Leo’s poems
he, “how great was the difficulty to persuade my father that all
road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws. But,
“No one, sir, but the broad day. I rose, bathed my head and face in
attached to the same, the water of which roared down a back-hatch like
see me after the fit: for I never forgot the, to me, frightful episode
      An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and
      she did not always know when she was silent.
came: in full heavy swing the torrent poured over me. The whole

      Longbourn, and of her stay in Derbyshire, so often, and in so

even Sophie bid me “bon soir” with glee. This was very pleasant; there
account. Jane, I shall watch you closely and anxiously—I warn you of
“How much do you ask?”
Henchard’s treachery was more credible than his story. He had in his
is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it

name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads
to consider me bad to the last; because to believe me good would give
  Chapter 61
pink cloud answer for a gown, do you think? And one could cut a pretty
at all. I suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has
While she still sat under the Scotchman’s eyes a man came up to the
emerged into the open air.

Henchard a little way behind. Not to interrupt them she remained on the
      nobody but a governess can give it. It is wonderful how many

persuade.”
words in the right key.
      Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their
consider the contract broken and would pay nothing.
“I believe you must, Jane. I am sorry, Janet, but I believe indeed you
“Who’s not playing fair?” said the other.
hour: his mind will be unclouded, his heart will be undaunted, his hope
“She is in the window-seat, to be sure, Jack.”
dressed with the exception of his coat; he was still; his head leant
staircase.
criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh

They conversed of things I had never heard of; of nations and times
      spirit or finer success; and happy did she think it for Bingley
lose a moment:
“And haven’t you your own land to visit,” continued Miss Ivors, “that
walked to a table and took her seat; Miss Miller assumed the fourth

“Well, I sometimes think we are too quiet; but we run a chance of being
      in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield. He is not at all liked
“Yes, everybody has colds,” said Aunt Kate readily, “everybody.”

“I shall be very glad to do so, sir.”

      recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears; an event
morning. You can go and rest in the other room; and I will call ’ee
every time, and of how the gallery boys would sometimes in their

of the game covers. He would have let the house, but could find no
long and lamentable blast.
fervid that she shrank somewhat, notwithstanding that she knew him so
“‘I affirm and can prove that on the 20th of October A.D. —— (a date of
all that, am I not?” he said.... “Was Newson a kind father?”
by their quaintness, and in a measure reasonableness, in this rare old
      resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
“I also,” said the Tin Woodman, “am well-pleased with my new heart;
On Saturday morning I reminded my uncle that I wished to go to the
married life, Mrs Kearney perceived that such a man would wear better


allowed to commence French and drawing. I learned the first two tenses
to find how easy I felt under the total neglect of the one and the

neither of the other two seemed to have any; so the whole party left
months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon’s. You know we poor
flattered myself I was doing that now.”
“Faith, nor I,” said her husband. “But she is willing, provided she can

thousand objects that scared me. Towards morning I was possessed by a kind
shaded his eyes and began to laugh.
not account, came over him. He made no sign of recognition and went on
      end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
I reflected. Poverty looks grim to grown people; still more so to
little beds: these beds were assigned as gardens for the pupils to
is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin
and spue fire any day.”
turned round. Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise.
      her features which marks the young lady of distinguished birth.
running up to her. Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her
of water and threw it over the mess. She then swept it all out the
“I knocked. ‘Who is there?’ said the old man. ‘Come in.’

regard me with kindness and forgiveness——”
Bell, Miss Healy and the young lady who had to recite the patriotic
furniture.
“O, of course, there were some bad lots.... But the astonishing thing
“No; I want only one companion this morning, and that must be you. Put
of the large front chambers: to be sure they have finer furniture, but
poisonous influences that came from his own temperament. The love that
way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night. You left before eleven.
prayer: it was only elevated.
the enjoyment of pleasure.
Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at the head of the marble
would fill the little unsatisfied corner that would probably have place
would gladly have talked of Lucetta, but feared to disturb him. When


angle of the road: I bent forward to take a last look; the wall
reason, he had no notion that she indulged her innate passion so

instance, he’d brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake

brook, and soon after they all started toward the Emerald City.
or elaborate argument.
which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and

“Round and round he went,” said Gabriel, “and the old gentleman, who
the journey, and there she saw the Golden Cap. She tried it on her own
“Carry out what?” said she, alarmed.
      somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly
terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead
      was necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was

boyish moods. Do you think this girl will ever be really content now
and then said:

      happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together
persevere in his journey, so as to recover himself before going indoors
hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of
“Our host is a delightful topic. Years ago he was christened Prince
“Do you like it?”
This explanation given, the subject was dropped, and no further
triumph; clapping my hands, I exclaimed, ‘I too can create desolation;

“You probably are aware of my arrangement with your daughter, and have
the strangers had slipped in before us, and they now stood by the vault
      “Eliza Bennet,” said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed
hope. I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my

      after half an hour’s quiet reflection in her own room, she was
they set to work in one of the big yellow rooms of the castle and
      women, with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr.
“A shockingly ugly old creature, miss; almost as black as a crock.”
her last illness, with the greatest affection and care and afterwards
      amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to

irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the
clergyman, who had not lifted his eyes from his book, and had held his
eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I
      real character—it adds even another motive.

      him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come
“Maybe she thinks you’ll marry her,” said Lenehan.
      were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield because the
Then he turned his attention to embroideries and to the tapestries that
middle of the path. Far and wide, on each side, there were only fields,
a form of reverie, a malady of dreaming, that made him unconscious of
admire him for it.
“The last time, Jane! What! do you think you can live with me, and see
She told me one evening, when more disposed to be communicative than
that could cure the plague. In the nests of Arabian birds was the
to call her the brains carrier of the Morkan family. Both she and Julia


disturbed: he again surveyed the picture.
      that remained to be said for the present.
this reason none of the Quadlings ever come to the Emerald City.”
      it to contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no
among stones. Hannah had been cold and stiff, indeed, at the first:
she had such a fine head of hair; raven-black and so becomingly
around the table and Dorothy ate some delicious porridge and a dish of
those that the Mayor was wanting. “Where would his business be if it
end thus opened, saw that the bundle consisted of letters; and, having
studies, St. John stayed more at home: he sat with us in the same room,
distinctness as my pencil could impart. Sinking below the bird and
off,” replied the magistrate.

He swept his arm round the company inclusively.
terrible reveries.
the candle-flame that she carried just below her nose. Thus it happened
me—on the contrary, the bonnet was doffed, the bandage displaced, the
got him you will find these mistakes will no longer occur—matters will
passion—remembering what she had suffered, and how she had been
      remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering
While they paused, Lucetta and Farfrae passed again, this time
decent. My very shoes and stockings were purified and rendered
them all_, cause ’ee to quite forget that though I loved ’ee late I
“Well, whatever it has been, it is now over; and the market calls you
What he would have asked her he did not say, and instead of encouraging

      was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to

“Well, sir, I shall be ready when the order to march comes.”
face from the cushion to me; I kissed his cheek; I smoothed his hair

give you strength to choose that better part which shall not be taken
doubtless of some moment of abstraction.

      Mrs. Bennet was perfectly satisfied, and quitted the house under

you had no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry’s influence. I see
such is not my destiny; I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I
homage given to beauty, youth, and grace—for never to any one else
it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished. I
      with her in the course of this morning?”

under or top?’ she’d scream again. By George, ’twas through her I was
inviting shelter; but I was so sick, so weak, so gnawed with nature’s

her ups and downs, capped by her indiscretions with Henchard had made
the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I
“how are you?”
sure to do it, then. Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it
CHAPTER II.

from all littleness of feeling, and although they did not remove my
I had dreaded worse. I had dreaded he was mad. I summoned strength to
You look a raight down dacent little crater.”

“Christmas-time! Christmas-time!” said Gabriel, almost trotting to the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all. Toto ate a little of
feelings, thoughts, wishes, aims; merge all considerations in one
your cousin, I believe.”


      “MY DEAR FRIEND,—
      Mrs. Reynolds, either by pride or attachment, had evidently great
Everyone had respect for poor Martin Cunningham. He was a thoroughly
his terrific appearance. He had carried off their store of winter
presume, from after-occurrences, that the apothecary ventured to
which our natures are at variance—a topic we should never discuss: the
      Gracechurch street the evening before I came home. But Mr.

tricks, talking and gesticulating. Routh won. The cabin shook with the
lay still a while: the night-wind swept over the hill and over me, and



in settling accounts with the housekeeper, that a lunch, consisting of
      economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than
“In the nature of things, Farfrae, it is almost impossible that a man
the cunning enlargement, by a species of microscopic treatment, of
my bedside, the figure stopped: the fiery eyes glared upon me—she

The question followed, “Where was I to go?” I dreamt of Miss Ingram all
“Why? What is your reason for saying so?”
business. He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the
Eliza smoothed her dress over her knees.
fortnight: that space, then, is yet left you for reflection. If I
      the ladies moved for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great
“No; you are less than a servant, for you do nothing for your keep.
passed under the arched _porte cochère_ of the hotel.


      herself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance
      brother? Heaven and earth!—of what are you thinking? Are the
notes of an insect that lie above the compass of the human ear.
      She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity
been the occasion of discomfort to your excellent benefactress.”
nothing stronger than tea for as many years as I was old that day. I
When she plodded on in the shade of the hedge, silently thinking, she
of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it
      June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the
      “I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days
Henchard did not reply to that very obvious suggestion, and, turning on

their summoner. They watched individual drops of rain creeping down the
the instruments were tuned and the comminatory verses sung.
unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be
sacrifice the whole human race.”


      one communication would, therefore, do for all. After a slight
days’ work that lordly car in which he sat. How smoothly it ran. In
theirs must have been: a pointed illustration, indeed, of the old adage
MY DEAR MICHAEL,—For the good of all three of us I have kept one thing

horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous

      “She did, indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance.
Bow, turned with him into Corn Street instead of going straight on to

beautiful young lady called Rosamond. He wanted to marry me only
      indebted, than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his
of flowers and months or the sterner ones of the great American
After a mincing attack on his bowl, he watched the hag’s proceedings
“It was nothing, sir.”
“You come to supper with me,” said the lady enthusiastically. “Both of

      forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We

with a wild laugh as she stepped in. She stood motionless for one
more self-indulgent than the frigid and rigid temper of the morning;
pretty little cherub-like girl, one of my scholars, and sundry views
profit. But the momentum of his character knew no patience. At this
immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my
good fire, and to be unable to get either. Neither of these returnings
      had been used to characterise her style, and which, proceeding
head the next day—that is, a fortnight sin’—and he went to sleep and
“We shan’t wait a day longer,” said the Scarecrow.
appointment. She came. This was the first of many meetings; they met
      friends—has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of—of Mr.
“And then,” I continued, “though I have only sisterly affection for him
prematurely developed the germs of insanity. Jane, you don’t like my
“From just below; and I am not at all afraid of being out late when it
      a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added
She had learnt the lesson of renunciation, and was as familiar with the

and forwards.
an indefinite time with her pitcher, was describing the incidents of
One evening when, at bedtime, his sisters and I stood round him,
      requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins,
security. Society—civilized society, at least—is never very ready to
direction of the house.

unbroken into the darkening sky, the lower parts being illuminated by
Between these rival ends ran parallel lines of side-dishes: two little
being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration.
From that day and hour it was clear that there was not to be so

and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic offices
him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message. He said he
“The fresh air revives me, Fairfax.”
visible.
done, and Elizabeth still passed as Miss Newson, and not by her legal
things.
“If ye’ll wait a minute,” said the Scotchman.
“What do you mean, Jane? I told you I would send Adèle to school; and
away I saw Gatsby walking toward me across his lawn.
seemed to him. One’s own soul, and the passions of one’s friends—those
something. Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its
the stage directions of which were written in purple ink, and a little
      would have thought necessary.

“I’ll tell you my opinion,” said Ignatius Gallaher, emerging after some
selects is absolutely delightful to me. Dorian Gray falls in love with
hard task; for the Great Wizard does not like to see anyone, and he
of which the good woman had been briefly informed by letter a few hours
This was enough; and the next morning Farfrae might have been
      sit near Elizabeth, began enquiring after his acquaintance in

“Harden, sir.”
the end of that time she transferred it to a place you know—being no
if we are cousins. You didn’t come to my wedding.”
      of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual
      Rosings, and not many in which his wife did not think it
him to the ground if he dared to lift the gorgeous hanging that
      “Is he married or single?”
Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrived from a
All this about a daughter who is no daughter of thine!”

      probabilities, and reconciling herself, as well as she could, to
“Hallo, Tommy, old hero, here you are! What is it to be? What will you
hard to get some brains. By good luck you came along and pulled me off
and pulled out one of the shutters. Lucetta glided to her side. “Let it
buffer of the engine and fell to the ground.
hers, and to bend, where my conscience and self-respect permitted, to
and he politely pulled his forelock.
Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
      acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “Oh, my


returned to the house. He was not there. We returned again, with
Nor care I now, how dense and grim

The young man’s hand remained steady in Henchard’s for a moment or two.
comprehension. And signs, for aught we know, may be but the sympathies
scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the

Nothing seems to us changed. Out of the unreal shadows of the night
unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of

“Look in the drawer there,” he said, pointing at the desk.
they were the same gray color to be seen everywhere. Once the house had
“I do frequently; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling a
is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me
Farrington’s face. “Pony up, boys. We’ll have just one little smahan
      “I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half as well as I do my
      We must trespass a little longer on your kindness.”
and peace once more. That I merited all I endured, I acknowledged—that
      licence. But my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is
discovered unless you help me.”


wrong—direct you, solace you—reward you well for your past kindness to

and the longer she listened the more she was enraptured. She had never

voice came, but I know whose voice it was—replied, ‘I am coming: wait
been sitting thus since the short day had grown dark. It was the sixth
“But that isn’t right. The King of Beasts shouldn’t be a coward,” said
head of affairs—that supreme and piquant enjoyment of those who writhe
room beyond, and Miss Baker leaned forward unashamed, trying to

moment I discovered his tiny eyes in the half-darkness.
my cure in—”
She hesitated for a moment, and then said—
“Very well,” said Henchard quickly, “please yourself. But I tell you,

      “And have you answered the letter?” cried Elizabeth.

      ever returning to Netherfield again?”

“I wish it were _fin du globe_,” said Dorian with a sigh. “Life is a
shoulder, as if Farfrae were a younger brother, bearing so heavily that


When he had gone on to give details which a whole series of slight and
      though general way, after her family, and looked and spoke with

love him. He loves (as he _can_ love, and that is not as you love) a
carpet, a sofa, and silver plate; besides, five weeks ago I had
said Dorothy, “for it would be unwise for us to go any other way except
Elizabeth-Jane sighed.
middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark
Presentiments are strange things! and so are sympathies; and so are
long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to
never suit my case, as I have made an indifferent, not to say a bad,
“Are you sure of that now?” asked Mr Fogarty dubiously. “I thought it
would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human
XXIV.
grass-grown enclosure within: here I stumbled over a marble hearth, and
see Helen,—I must embrace her before she died,—I must give her one last
      With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was
contents upon trestles and boxes on the kerb, extending the display
      once, on one of which was marked that it had been missent
a chance of getting no dinner at all: every one downstairs was too much
Woodman.
gentleman called he was to be admitted at once, and sat down to await
wanted an opinion of the value of their haystack, and sent a messenger
A dim background started to take shape behind him, but at her next
chidden for the triviality of the inquiry, returned to her place, and
“but don’t let Sibyl.... It is a gentleman, isn’t it, who is in love


both its strength and truth. I saw the fascination of the locality. I
      was not a man to be trusted. My poor mother is really ill, and
      closest attention, the particulars immediately following of
Henchard let out the secret in his parting words? Her suspense was

      was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she
      see anything extraordinary in them. They have a sharp, shrewish


is no happiness like that of being loved by your fellow-creatures, and

I humoured him: the watch ticked on: he breathed fast and low: I stood

Hallward was thunderstruck. He looked at Dorian Gray in absolute
      modesty?”
scarcely knowing witherward:—

      “It is more than I engage for, I assure you.”
“Yes, Miss: my wife is very hearty, thank you; she brought me another
in a moment. Ever since I have known Mason, I have only had to say to
“The words induced me to turn towards myself. I learned that the
outstretching of the arm. But it would have been possible, by a
you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her
villages round. Their owners were numerous enough to be regarded as a
that they recognized who it was.
“who is always trying to stand upon his head. He has broken himself so
Montanvert. I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous
“Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear.”

died. It was a dark rainy evening and there was no sound in the house.
sense that what he might most like to give her would be beyond his
a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success. Life and death

clearly. The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur
I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration. Sometimes I
when he is in his own form, no living person can tell.”
      “Could I expect it to be otherwise!” said she. “Yet why did he

with him.
must forgive my being such a spy, but for a long time I have fancied I
this in my expression, for she turned abruptly away and ran up the
observed in every arrangement connected with the establishment of
broken by the fear that he was so soon to cease to be my master, and by
      at least that advantage.”
time.
“Where is this great spider of yours now?” asked the Lion.


engagement. I think that would be a rather nice excuse: it would have
beheld one the cynosure of a ball-room, the other the inmate of a
wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone
apartment-houses. Throwing a regal homecoming glance around the
my limbs.

His voice was solemn, as if the memory of that sudden extinction of a
was a matter of life and death.” His voice was hard and cold. He spoke
with miserable cruelty.”

The ease of his manner freed me from painful restraint: the friendly
her, and sadly satirize himself for his emotions thereon, as a Samson
had followed every movement; and she sighed.
your mother. I should like to see her.... She is not left very well off
hay-trusser, and when I was eighteen I married on the strength o’ my
says they. And they said, ‘He’s the most understanding man o’ them two
health. He has already had one or two little _wives,_ but Louisa Biron
cheer of the gratefully oppressed. Their sympathy, however, was for the
what he had said.

It was near Christmas by the time all was settled: the season of
considered generous by Society as he fed the people who amused him. His


“When alone, Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it
“MICHAEL HENCHARD.”
out into the road and peered up at the clock.
“’ant we have a little...?”
the impression that he was sure to visit it that day.
edges soiled. A copy of the third edition of _The St. James’s Gazette_
to-morrow; for you must be dressed and have finished breakfast before
emulation. It certainly had been very remiss of him, as Mayor, he
charming boyish smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth
ye really be such a poor fond fool as to care for such a wretch as I!’
Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no
At the outset Henchard’s hold by his only free hand, the right, was on
He began to tremble.
acquaintances resented the fact that he turned up in popular cafés




“Yes, yes, Miss Morkan is right,” said Mr Browne. “I remember hearing
“There’s a nice husband for you, Mrs Malins.”
Elizabeth-Jane had gone to Mr. Farfrae’s. Like one acting in obedience
I felt Mr. Rochester start and shudder; he hastily flung his arms round
in a solemn voice. At once the cap changed to a slate, on which was
      say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball.”
of them, with black-tipped ears erect and long hinder limbs throwing it
Gabriel advanced from the little pantry behind the office, struggling
      how much she longed for such a visit, was delighted at her
“What bottles?” said the old man.

no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.
flower.” And I took a rose from a vase and fastened it in her sash. She

tonight, Gabriel,” said Aunt Kate.
glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
      redress?”
round to her room? That is an important point.”
Chapter VI
than sounds for me; and so hollow and fleeting that it is mere waste of
broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother
      question which she could not answer without confusion, said

her breakfast. She saw there was not much bread left in the basket, and



      “Oh! my dear brother,” replied Mrs. Bennet, “that is exactly what
      after many a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to
“What about it?” said Gatsby politely. “I guess your friend Walter
would be over and casually put away. It was sharply different from the
he treated you as an especial favourite, you would have found enemies,
too.”
      every fatigue, I am sure; but I did not think it right for either
had been lost in some delightful dream. Yet he had not dreamed at all.
      real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not
cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands.

her change of position, and held out her hand to him in such cool
      intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.
overlaid the junction with a large mass of wax without the requisite
dead level of middle age, when material things increasingly possess the


hour.
when I first saw the ocean he was but one day’s journey in advance, and

at the woman, who was by no means ill-favoured.
“How is Mrs. Reed?” I asked soon, looking calmly at Georgiana, who
      shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you
were arranged from below upwards according to bulk. A complete
carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous, four-rayed stars, flame-red
then to pursue his walk in silence, I ventured to recall him to the
      reproof.”
might any day be taken from me. I want a wife: the sole helpmeet I can

invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words “_I shall be with
“Precisely: I see you do. I see genuine contentment in your gait and
opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer
“And you girls probably worshipped him, as a convent full of
“Anything moving in the old place, mid I ask?”

leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not

fire. It was night: a candle burnt on the table; Bessie stood at the
“I’d like to come.”
I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage.
one mass about the trembling trio just returned—and I closed the door
of his prosperity, and gone into Jopp’s cottage by the Priory Mill—the
to a minimum—which arranges that wisdom to do shall come _pari passu_
      what he had been, when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I would
before our ill-advised acquaintance; and that you really did set before


      directed all his anger against another.
was looking for something in the grass.
describes scarcely impressed one with the idea of a gentle, a yielding,

unlikely to be influenced by motives so commonplace in his choice of a

Wilson had never seemed faintly capable of such a statement.
than the expansive. The sternest-seeming stoic is human after all; and
across to him. “Am I really like that?”
displayed in the shop windows. Scythes, reap-hooks, sheep-shears,
cottage.
all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that
custom—scarcely recognized as such, yet none the less established. On
      of a year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think
      ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the room, or the

      Mr. and Mrs. Phillips, protesting that he did not in the least
requisition as a reception-room for callers. A fire was lit in an
waist: an embroidered handkerchief knotted about her temples; her
      Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city might
glad that you are the only person, besides myself, acquainted with the
      Elizabeth read on:
“Yes: he always has candles brought in at dark, though he is blind.”
to be the recipient of secrets. Besides, I know what sort of a mind I
      He came, and in such very good time that the ladies were none of
At last the woods rose; the rookery clustered dark; a loud cawing broke
The matron had given her leave to go out as soon as the women’s tea was

yours, I will not rashly encounter danger. I will be cool,
“Well, then, now is your chance; I am open to an offer for this gem o’
minute I had my face under their bonnets, in contact first with Mary’s
edge of the gulf and crouched down.
      from their apprehension of Charlotte’s dying an old maid.
misunderstood the word, and been displeased. I mean, that human

      the world, though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first
contemplation, when she saw a green-and-black gig approaching from the
pride to think of descending so low; and yet, for the girl’s sake he



what appears, that you are judged; and I therefore think you ought to
Gabriel went to the stairs and listened over the banisters. He could

      Elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened
near you last night, it was only the veil that was harmed. Oh, to think
      _You_ may ask questions which _I_ shall not choose to answer.”
      Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to her through

“Because,” he said, “I sometimes have a queer feeling with regard to
ladies and their brother were now.
virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as
“It’s all right, constable. I’ll see him home.”
foolish plan. I had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt,
saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by
      pack her trunk afresh.
      Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was

have a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown on a chair, and
the supplanter was the upstart (as Henchard called him) who had mounted
      her sister justified, by the receipt of two letters from her at


They were walking quickly, the young woman taking quick short steps,
“Yes, it was very curious. I don’t know what made me say it. Some whim,
when we are hungry we are all very quarrelsome.”



“Marrying Sibyl Vane!” cried Lord Henry, standing up and looking at him
not eat for happiness. They were standing on the crowded platform and
Mr. Farfrae.
father and surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them
tick in its obscure corner; and I even fancied I could distinguish the
The face of Mr. Henchard beamed forth a satisfaction that was almost
My journey was very melancholy. At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed
specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting
oaks, at once explained the etymology of the mansion’s designation.
clodhopper. I’m burned, if it goes on, this house can’t hold us two.”
“Dear, dear Elizabeth!” I exclaimed, when I had read her
      to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear the one
      present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_
unloading their waggons. A white-smocked carter offered him some
tired for he had been talking all the afternoon in a public-house in
had hounded little Peake out of the office in order to make room for
      success, for those to whom she endeavoured to give pleasure were
unceasing murmur.
At this hour Lucetta was bounding along the road to Port-Bredy just as
Wolfshiem scared him into shutting his mouth.”
spirits watch us, for they are commissioned to guard us; and if we were
myself, and by my own guidance, I ran the risk of getting into some
Bridge. Mahony’s big sister was to write an excuse for him and Leo
“But he’s an Orangeman, Crofton, isn’t he?” said Mr Power.
his father, sister, and himself. He had previously communicated his
executions the waiting crowd stood in a meadow immediately before the
      though her intentions did not vary for an instant, she was at

same. At that hour most of the others were sewing likewise; but one
      conduct. She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear of

all these times?’ And I said, ‘Because, sir, I see things be bad with
many words he decided to go to his destination that way.


“It is time some one undertook to rehumanise you,” said I, parting his
Diana and Mary Rivers became more sad and silent as the day approached
threw his own feeling, his own force; finding a way through the ear to
      “They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
Thornfield Hall, this would be its haunt.”
gasping, broken sobs, and then took up the lyric again in a quavering
of his burdensome purchases at a monstrous loss, the harvest began.

idolatrous devotion: but I am not writing to flatter parental egotism,

“Are you mad, my friend?” said he. “Or whither does your
the hob. He was silent for two reasons. The first reason, sufficient in


lost count of the conversation of his friends.

feared a stubbornness that exists in your character. I feared early
table lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at
relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country
withy basket of old-fashioned make; the mother a blue bundle, which
      much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely
side.
“Yes, sir, yes; and my arm.”
      deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his
      occur a second time, therefore, was very odd! Yet it did, and
Fairfax of Blanche Ingram; remember the raven ringlets, the oriental
than I am. She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do. But
“The flame flickers in the eye; the eye shines like dew; it looks soft
Henchet?”

      of danger security for happiness.”
      overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a disposition to seek
sweet as music—‘I think it is a glorious thing to have the hope of
“’Tis the man,” repeated Henchard doggedly.
“O no; she didn’t do evil exactly!” said Lucetta hastily.
eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections. I, a
“Nor you to mine,” said he. “So we are agreed about that. Gentlemen,
Tea ready, I was going to approach the table; but she desired me to sit
“Dear me!” said Lady Agatha, “how you men argue! I am sure I never can
      “I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near
“And I should get no courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.
better man.

bear the sight of us, he called us all to him in the forest after he

      and had come to the ball in a hack chaise.”
As I did so I met the gaze of a pair of bottle-green eyes peering at me
to hurt the man’s name. But now he’s gone I can tell ye. Why, I came to
going to bed, I had hung my wedding-dress and veil, stood open; I heard
through her husband as if he were a ghost, shook hands with Tom,
even and gleaming teeth without flaw; the small dimpled chin; the
duchess.
the real business is done earlier than this. I’ve been working within
of the sofa and his chin in his hand.

“Well, I’ll try it,” said the Lion. “Who will go first?”


was sewing, I was watching her. Mrs. Reed might be at that time some
      This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his
bills and the disposing of items for a programme, Mrs Kearney helped

to control and restrain him: a movement of repulsion, flight, fear
      you. I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling
the floods overflowed me.”
hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him. He
kissed him and said he was very good to think of her.


He deliberately scrutinised each sketch and painting. Three he laid

direction.

“Some days since: nay, I can number them—four; it was last Monday
throat, told her tauntingly, she had yet but dipped her dainty foot in
It was dated three years back.
and so well did he work that by the time the mice began to arrive the
“No,” she answered, “one is of tin, and one of straw; one is a girl and
woman, Grace Poole.”
      considerable while, she once more continued to read. But, alas!
to me: “I am not long for this world,” and I had thought his words
automaton?—a machine without feelings? and can bear to have my morsel
      “There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest
Mr Holohan, assistant secretary of the _Eire Abu_ Society, had been
Farfrae, blinking a little in his bewilderment and nervously tapping
forward with a conscientious expression—then she laughed, an absurd,
which would have looked strange, indeed, by the pallid gleam of
trampling died out like the rustle of a spent wind. Elizabeth was only
      would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are
“Monsieur, je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonté;” then rising,
the former attempt, in the latter not so completely.

and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself
was always too sleepy to join in a plot with spirit. The best fun was
trumpet, would I!”
“he said he’d mortify my flesh if so be I didn’t get up sooner, and now
stepfather slowly raise his hand to a level behind Farfrae’s shoulders,
      followed, but Lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she
the sound of the telephone bell out to Gatsby and me as we waited at
the glass,” I said.
some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this
rebellion, Dorian Gray hastened on, quickening his step as he went, but

but one resource, and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to
On this account Henchard’s manner towards Farfrae insensibly became
her friends were walking. But the Woodman had seen them coming, and the
      him, had ended in nothing. Elizabeth had received none since her
foliage shooting over it, I could see all within. I could see clearly a
      watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.
“Very well,” he answered quietly: “and indeed my head is otherwise

you.”
  Chapter 10
is cast on the spirits by the receipt of such news. Mary and I would
Toto jumped out of Dorothy’s arms and hid under the bed, and the girl
Oxford, because all my ancestors have been educated there for many
      moments after seated with the rest of the party. She now lost

equal—one with whom I might argue—one whom, if I saw good, I might
just been standing. Here he leant against one of the staddles, and gave
whom I dared not even think?
to Toto. Toto only wagged his tail; for, strange to say, he could not
lamps in black shadows upon the pale walls.
me: to live under this roof only as Adèle’s governess; if ever I say a
ago, from New York. I was bringing you that coupé we’ve been talking
      thank you. But I cannot—I have never desired your good opinion,
“What part of the Middle West?” I inquired casually.


attempt to burn me in my bed; on the second, she paid that ghastly
life. Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now
just to buck you up.”
my coffee (we were at breakfast): it was hot, and I attributed to that
having been defeated by such a stripling.


      “A little.”
generally still, but the great pressure of the wind on every side of
at it so fiercely that he cut it in two. At once the tree began shaking
      Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short
gesture that I was to approach and stand before him.

Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile. She mentally
When the phone rang that afternoon and Long Distance said Chicago was


“What about?”

bastard half-sister: some, my cast-off mistress. I now inform you that
Caffre bush, even the plague-cursed Guinea Coast swamp would suit him
these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been
and shameful.”
      “Did Mr. Darcy give you reasons for this interference?”
Dorothy did not know what to say to this, for all the people seemed to
      Wickham of course wanted more than he could get; but at length
“There’s nothing to get mixed up in. It’s all over now.”
distorted by their two months of hard usage, he entered a shop to make
      less fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding

do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
have ever followed in his track. Sometimes the peasants, scared by
they passed together along the Walks—as the avenues on the walls were


      credit for _another interest_ in the affair.
after the stock.” Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and
scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves

affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Cæsar would have spared his

smitten, went home only to die: some died at the school, and were
river where you live now.”
the religious stimulus. In a whisper Mr Cunningham drew Mr Kernan’s

as a paymaster? Blasphemy against nature! Every good, true, vigorous

scandal. Yes: I should fancy that was his end. I see him lying now on

continually made little chilling differences between us, which did not
conducted into the mossy garden, and through a door in the wall, which
But for the moonlight they would have been in complete darkness. They
It passed, and he began to talk excitedly to Daisy, denying
The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree
      variety of thought—re-considering events, determining
not the young man I thought you were, what’s the difference? Can’t ye
Chapter 8



“It is come now—I must give it to-night.”
drew on: she was indeed already come; the frosts of winter had ceased;
      fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her. On opening
card from his wallet, he waved it before the man’s eyes.

heel and leaving him.
then the living proof had been seen; the intruders were gone, and all


upon them with tragic fixity, till his eye lighted up and his cheek
mournfully followed them to Casterbridge. The chief looming trouble in
miserable self.

“Certainly—unless you object. I will be your neighbour, your nurse,
      about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to
are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am
detestation and contempt.
      Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes
human dreams; for a transitory enchanted moment man must have held his
“How can you, Harry!” cried Dorian.
“_Fin du globe_,” answered his hostess.
cheerfully—
battalion of men under his own eye. They erected greasy-poles for
“It happened that you were peloothered, Tom,” said Mr Cunningham
placed in my pocket. But here also I am checked. I believe that I have no

open and the lace curtains ballooned gently towards the street beneath

witty and original, and partly because she had a manner which set me at
“Ah! here I reach the root of the matter. He wanted you to marry him?”
as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at
      pleasure in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though

“And was that the head and front of his offending?” demanded Mr.
Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my
      myself is heightened into something still more interesting, from
Well, one evening about seven o’clock, I determined to go out in search

of voices as the fishermen called to one another. I felt the silence,
      down to her uncle at Liverpool: gone to stay. Wickham is safe.”
      deportment she soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, she
inscription that he left was in these words: “Prepare! Your toils
      herself. She heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up
Mixen Lane—a back slum of the town, the _pis aller_ of Casterbridge

  Chapter 1
would just step out to Bessie—who was, I dared say, in the kitchen—and
put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally. Dorothy sat
earth; the clock struck in the hall; that sufficed; I turned from moon

      information, that Bingley’s attentions to your sister had given
road,” I reflected. “And far better that crows and ravens—if any ravens
Ah, ma’am, we of the lower classes know nothing of the gay leisure that
floor. The manager, alarmed by the grey pallor of the man’s face, sent

her and Helen, which it was indeed a privilege to be admitted to hear.
wor wrang—but I’ve clear a different notion on you now to what I had.

      Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but
stepped onward bravely.


attended her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner that excited
own accord.”
arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed
      Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth
“You are infamous, absolutely infamous!” he muttered.
perpetrator, if any, might be Farfrae. These isolated hours of
Mrs. Henchard paused for a moment, and answered uneasily, “Of course

“I disliked Mr. Brocklehurst; and I was not alone in the feeling. He is
to be called in the morning.
      them!”

supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their
Our nature shall entwine.



“Right!” said Lenehan.
looking at her, kicked off his goloshes and flicked actively with his
      such an instance of Lady Catherine’s condescension, as he knew
“I am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an American
heard any singing like this and it was evident that the majority of the

me appeared some years younger: the first impressed me by her voice,

theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode of
went up and addressed him, and smiled gaily, encouragingly, even fondly

there like a trampled flower. “Dorian, Dorian, don’t leave me!” she
and fear. Justine died, she rested, and I was alive. The blood flowed
      temper. But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that


and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little
what I have felt and still feel? Cold, want, and fatigue were the
can bear a mountain blast, or a shower, or a few flakes of snow, as
revived.
to express disappointment and at the same time opened wide his very
Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together.”
youth when its spirit follows on willing wings the flight of Hope up
theatrical. O’Halloran stood a round and then Farrington stood another

glance fierce and fell. I wanted to feel the thoughts whose force he
“His father was a decent respectable man,” Mr Henchy admitted. “Poor
his demand. We crossed the ice, therefore, and ascended the opposite



re-entrance), “take this key: go down into my bedroom, and walk

intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful
discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was. I
laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night
      them all.”
conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an idea struck me,

chauffeur, in which sat three modish negroes, two bucks and a girl. I
probable. I know there are dreadful places in Paris, but Basil was not
      minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of age we all went
facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in
their surnames, as boys are elsewhere), “Burns, you are standing on the


      He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three
living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate
in one after another just as the shutters were enclosing them, like a

“Mother, Mother, I am so happy!” whispered the girl, burying her face
      Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such
“You know you believe it all,” said Lord Henry, looking at him with his
tendencies, higher principles, and purer tastes than such as

gave existence; then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die.”

II


contented to stand, for I derived a child’s pleasure from the
take lessons; and a docile, intelligent, assiduous pupil she made. Thus
fortunate for Kansas that you have brains.”

I will not be one till I die: I will be myself. Mr. Rochester, you must

long as I live.”
“But what have I to do with millions? The eighty, I know, despise me.”
myself in idea _his wife_. Oh! it would never do! As his curate, his
I heard on all sides cordial salutations, and was welcomed with

cannot leave him.”
“Very much.”
river Froom, and from any point a view was obtained of the country
pap of life, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.
      wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new
pushed the mat which his entrance had deranged. He stamped the snow
died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and
windows, but nothing of her was to be seen.


      truth, _we_ are scarcely less eager to meet her again. I really
“A pensioner of Farfrae’s wife—not I! Don’t stay with me longer—I shall
failure. The lady who sat next him looked round at the deserted house


sake. The woman had long perceived how zealously and constantly the
you understand now, don’t you?”


doubtless laughed at the—what shall I call it?—practical joke (in all
room. His life would be lonely too until he, too, died, ceased to
“Where do you see the necessity?” he asked suddenly.
pleasing and obliging companion: docile, good-tempered, and
      suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear
“Must get a bit stale, I should think,” he said.
the trees, which blew the wires and made the lights go off and on
      in the small summer breakfast parlour at Rosings; a comparison
and reserve all the talent for Saturday night. Mrs Kearney said
added an urgent charge to keep it secret: and very soon the infamous
M. HENCHARD.
      engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her,
      subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while
little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked
has cultivated my original qualities thus:—From the minute germ,
fulfilment of my destiny. In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and
it.”
      all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself
I walked on so fast that even he could hardly have overtaken me had he

“Oh, you are quite a lady, Miss Jane! I knew you would be: you will get
      was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often doubted whether

old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.

      could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find
too long dressing.” She danced out of the door. One could hear her
musically undulated between two semi-tones as it always did when he
      he had lost every point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express
and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing straight at his head,
propensity for saving; shown not only in the vending of eggs and
He sighed, and having poured himself out some tea, opened Lord Henry’s
      but else I must say that I hate the very sight of him.”
“I am afraid I must be going,” exclaimed Lady Henry, breaking an
      letter-paper, written quite through, in a very close hand. The
lips, and they were gray also. She was thin and gaunt, and never smiled
boudoir within the drawing-room.
abode—whether in the church vault or in the unknown world of the
older girls I admired her most. She asked me if I was going to the Red
been not a little amazed at receiving a letter by hand in Lucetta’s
“Oh, please don’t, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky

      or anything. To be sure London was rather thin, but, however, the
how it was haunted. I charged them to conceal from you, before I ever
or a shred of crumpled lace.
and too impatient of difficulties. But it is a still greater evil to me


      showed her Darcy, with a heightened complexion, earnestly looking


amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an
“Yes, she was wise, she was wise in her generation!” said Henchard to
petticoats and pulling down the sleeves of their blouses over their red



“Fine night, sir!”
Everyone laughed again: but Mr Kernan was somewhat indignant still. He
stationed outside. I approached him, and said the gentlemen were

teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and
blinds we’d of seen daylight.”
_He_ (with the pathos of one of his native ballads).—“Ah, I doubt there
“I’ll help you to pay off your debt.”
he knew not which way to turn. He lifted his hand and opened his
earth, the habitations of another race of beings.
three times with portentous significancy.
immense and powerful wings on his shoulders.
pretend to be shocked by what I have said. You are not really shocked:
the glass of milk spilled from his trembling hand.
      gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection
decency. He seemed to think I had committed an impropriety in proposing
likely to suit Mr. Rochester’s taste.
voice failed me: words were lost in sobs. He and I were the only
      however, saw the whole completed; and Mr. Gardiner meanwhile



      and its contents as quickly complied with. Mrs. Bennet,
philosophic party, which included Longways, Christopher Coney, Billy
      flattered them a year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would
“This play was good enough for us, Harry. It was Romeo and Juliet. I
      of any consideration in the world,” replied Darcy.

voices scolding, and high over the confusion a long broken wail of
Juliet! Harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a

electricity. On this occasion a man of great research in natural
future pupil.”

Georgiana sat on a high stool, dressing her hair at the glass, and
to witness. But a selling? Was it done quiet-like?”
overwhelming event? Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their
although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I

I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes
childer nor of mysel: poor things! They’ve like nobody to tak’ care on
place—such as the moon, for instance—and it nodded its head towards her
wanted me to have some dinner; but, as I had no appetite, he left me in
      this sudden attack was delightful to their mother’s ear.
      looked expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw
      the greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you
“Eight years! you must be tenacious of life. I thought half the time in
I tried to extract it; it sickened me when remembrance thrust it
Thus Casterbridge was in most respects but the pole, focus, or
“Let us call in the soldier with the green whiskers,” he said, “and ask
On reaching the library, he found that it was just after five o’clock
not nervousness. Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely
in a cover, and having rung for his carriage, he departed.
bootlegger?”
five pounds, Jane.”

not yet revealed his real name. I think it is quite romantic of him. He
outsider. The injured man said again as well as he could:
the horizon; for the intimate revelations of young men, or at least
pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins—he was to have
      persuaded that nothing could be done for Lydia, her uncle’s
come in at ten minutes to nine and tell her that I must be dressed by
death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing. I have

ay,” continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering,
me from distinguishing. With a loud long knock, the new-comer appealed
for. I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been
      ought likewise to be, if he possibly can. His character is
      account for it.
“Jane!” recommenced he, with a gentleness that broke me down with
They asked him if he had had much luck.
Venetian-red hair; Lady Alice Chapman, his hostess’s daughter, a dowdy
promising to unfold the shining secrets that only Midas and Morgan and

longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks. Light,

Dorian shook his head. “I am not cold,” he murmured.

be speaking. An intimation of the result pricked him like the point of
immediately on my entrance: it appeared she wished to finish a
wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone? I had

end.”
to take advantage of her daughter’s name and brought an Irish teacher

letters of bright vermilion.
and besides, the flood-gates of tears are opened, and they would rush
picturesque rocks and ruins, Cuyp-like groups of cattle, sweet

had features so irregular and so marked. And why had I these
Mr. Rochester had sometimes read my unspoken thoughts with an acumen to
then I got in; before he shut me up, I asked him how far it was to
of the grain, and knots, and nails, which composed the signboard. As a
no mercy.
“No, no. Don’t run any risk!” said his wife anxiously. “I can find my
human nature to keep the eyes averted when the door slammed.
      but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did
foolishness to do this. Go and dress yourself instantly Whittle.”
      your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet
perhaps, a secret, it was a wish for half my estate.”
“Possibly: yet why should I, if I can get sweet, fresh pleasure? And I
      knowing what she felt, Elizabeth on finishing this letter
appearance. He was easy in his mind now, for his own preparations far
ask her to do so now. Newson might return at any moment, and what
cleared up the mistake of supposing Mr. Rochester’s movements a matter
in search of another road. There was none: all was interwoven stem,
the distance becoming lost in the moonlit hazes.
      so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother
gentle boy. We used to go out together, walking, you know, Gabriel,

appeared at the door.
      Mr. Gardiner’s door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching
“I’ll tell ye what—I won’t sell her for less than five,” said the
accompany me to Millcote this morning; and while you prepare for the
      to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet
account, and didn’t forget to tell me so in letters one after another;
“My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have
of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation of the lineaments!”


“You loved me too?” he repeated.
looks just like a man.’
and plunge headlong into wild license. I saw that in another moment,
      o’clock in the morning, and was as follows:—
one side, when the housemaid came in with the announcement, “Oh, please
“Oh, don’t be so serious, Jim. You are like one of the heroes of those
article of attire that was not made with extreme simplicity—I was still
Casterbridge town were animated by the gathering hands. Their shouts
“that pang is past. God raises my weakness and gives me courage to
that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was
dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life. Even the
nice. Not long before, when she had been laid up for a day, he had read
guilt, or fear of detection. She said “Good morning, Miss,” in her
said—
The suggestion was sensible, and yet I could not force myself to act on
      “True,” said Mr. Bennet, “but it is a comfort to think that
raindrops from the other side of the wall. There came such words as
and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were waiting to hear what Oz had
through the private little door which, admitting directly into
never see my portrait of Dorian Gray.”
He accordingly drew rein, but before reversing their direction paused a
courageous I have grown.”
obeyed. Leaning a little back on my bench, I could see the looks and

or rather _out_ of myself, as the French would say: I was conscious
seemed to be intently watched by them both, he exclaimed, “There, now,


he exclaimed. “Is she original? Is she piquant? I would not exchange
“I cannot commission you to fetch help,” he said; “but you may help me
accomplishments. All the men in her circle seemed to admire her and


“After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try

      vain a man! It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself
      at Mr. Phillips’s. Many of his expressions were still fresh in
Farfrae thereupon said no more. The letter to the young Jersey woman
“You don’t have to tell me what kind of car it was! I know what kind
tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans. How would such a
did—exactly like the Apostle Paul.”
Some dim impulse moved the policeman to look suspiciously at Tom.
yourself pluck out your right eye; yourself cut off your right hand:
natural he pushed his cap back on his head and planted his elbows on
by rats.—To proceed. Mrs. Reed kept the orphan ten years: whether it
she came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned
go: _that_ I perceived well. When—how—whither, I could not yet discern;

      received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be
“He would approve of your plans, Jane? I know they would be clever, for
      without reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly
ship with a chimney that smoked—how it did smoke!—and I was sick, and
      readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the


“I’ve got to go to bed.”

opportunities of enjoying the lady’s society. Neither he nor she had
because its leaves were yellow. The wild garden behind the house


      promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to
This made Dorothy so very angry that she picked up the bucket of water
Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices,
“A mere spectre!”
would ever weaken. Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and

the long brass chains by which it was suspended. “And, now, where shall
“No. There’s Mr. Bulge—he’s a wine merchant; there’s Benjamin
new to her in the bulk. The lady, she said, had arrived that day.
job. He hadn’t eat anything for a couple of days. ‘Come on have some
      there assembled, a doubt of his being present had never occurred
      Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of
you to come here.”
place in the first rank of those who are redeemed from the earth—who
the suffering that she seeks for and wounded by self-inflicted pain. He
      recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of their _three_
afterwards. He brought his daughter back with him, I was told, and she
in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable to believe that
      And so, you like this man’s sisters, too, do you? Their manners
      of his feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation
beggar, but only an eccentric sort of lady, who had taken a fancy to
“It was a strange coincidence,” I said.
the foremost man in the town, and don’t let my sins, _when you know

face. A perhaps uncalled-for gush of pity came over my heart: I was
      Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be
former days. Bessie had retained her quick temper as well as her light


      very sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well
lonely chamber; though it originated but in one, and I could have
him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though
Mr Henchy began to snuffle and to rub his hands over the fire at a
to me will be this crumbling grange, the row of scathed firs behind,
“The Mayor,” she said.
      was fixed on.
gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine
undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to
showed me when you first tried for’t are sufficient.”
      who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away
“That’s an advertisement,” Michaelis assured him. Something made him
is almost as bad as rotten potatoes; famine itself soon sickens over
decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in fact all subjects,
      living became vacant two years ago, exactly as I was of an age to
brought her from abroad, and some believed she had been his mistress.
      “Perhaps we might be deceived.”
opened, then shut again, and she slept.

      “And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover
“I could not afford it: schools are so dear.”

passage the horses going to their stalls at the back, and the coming
I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned him at dinner, and
      “I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.”
our hostess regarded us, as we satisfied our famished appetites on the
“No, no, not for me,” said old Cotter.
a corn-factor’s manager that I put into the paper—ha’n’t you come here

he passed. At the end of the hall hung a tattered green curtain that


Every other order of the Church had to be reformed at some time or
The other drawings pleased her much, but she called that “an ugly man.”
never seen; it had not even been moved from the ricks in which it lay
her; Mrs. Erlynne, a pushing nobody, with a delightful lisp and
As she mused the pitiful vision of her mother’s life laid its spell on
“Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far

boats; nets were cast, but in vain. After passing several hours, we
“Nonsense.”

the boys to polish off that and have another.

The sailor continued standing. Henchard never looked up from the floor.
remarks could be heard as others’ had been.
      Mr. Wickham’s attention was caught; and after observing Mr.
over to Mrs Kearney and told her that the other four guineas would be
beautiful, Dorian,” he said, “but she can’t act. Let us go.”
I have told you, reader, that I had learnt to love Mr. Rochester: I
Gabriel with her.
      complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any
remembered that the real world was wide, and that a varied field of
Indian, perhaps, feels when he slips over the rapid in his canoe. I
“No, no, sir! think of other subjects, and speak of other things, and
of Scripture were said, and to these succeeded a protracted reading of
In due time the bereaved Farfrae had learnt the, at least, proximate
While thus furtively making her survey the opening words of a song

remain in the society of men. But she was innocent. I know, I feel
look like him. You shrug your shoulders? I am telling you the truth.
champagne, and during the course of her song she had decided, ineptly,
      credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred
“Son or daughter?”


      and could have the advantage of a London master. She has a very
      it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason. My
puzzling. The front door was kept shut, and the step was so clean that
      family of de Bourgh.
was. When we were on a house-party together up in Warwick, she left a
all deliberating on my words—
“Yaas, to be sure I do,” drawled Lord Ingram; “and the poor old stick
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
every kind. Farm-labourers and other peasants, who combined a little
characteristics of sad sky, cold gale, and continued small penetrating
“Goloshes!” said Mrs Conroy. “That’s the latest. Whenever it’s wet
      inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little
“Look here, old sport, you’ve got to get somebody for me. You’ve got
been seen in San Francisco. It is an odd thing, but every one who
      carriage before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that
I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness. In the morning I went to
When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off
pockets.
to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was
waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few! And what was I? Of
the money, if a penny. Go on.”

of opinion that twelve feet nine inches from a man on his oath was
would be closed, I passed in quickly through a turnstile, handing a
at sight, made his unexpected presence here attractive to Lucetta. He
He was lifting the latch: a sudden thought occurred to me.



were also involved. Lucetta had confessed everything to him before her
suppress: there was something ludicrous as well as painful in the
for her; and nothing annoyed her so much as the occurrence of any
      communication of present suffering. But in all, and in almost
      The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the
It was the hill near which he had waited to meet Farfrae, almost two
about it? Elizabeth, my child, come and hearken to what we be talking

      “Lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in some
hands, and I idly asleep the while.”


      uncles. And is _such_ a girl to be my nephew’s sister? Is _her_

ultimately succeed. I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my
      have sometimes seen when he looked at her. She stood several
understanding smile, as if we’d been in ecstatic cahoots on that fact

saw—or fancied she saw, for she had a terror of feeling certain—her
When they saw the Witch of the East was dead the Munchkins sent a swift
window.
“Dorian Gray is engaged to be married,” said Lord Henry, watching him
something about the passage over and over again. The station was full
in, without farther parley. I heard her sweeping away; and soon after
all around, in the form of books, sketches, maps, and little
      particularly to her, as if wishing to make her feel what she had
      The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The
In spite of the wives’ agreement that such malevolence was beyond

      were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were
he will not take cold with sleeping on the library sofa,” &c.
purple-and-gold pall as a curtain. For weeks he would not go there,
      She grew absolutely ashamed of herself. Of neither Darcy nor
“Oh! yes. But you see there is a considerable difference in age: Mr.
“He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God,

When Henchard had squared his affairs in a disastrous way, and got rid
A feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that
stand the certainty of condemnation on a matter so near his heart. And
the courage to speak an event happened which set his thoughts flying in
dangled to the floor. One boot stood upright, its limp upper fallen
What would they say of her in the Stores when they found out that she
which sensational exits from the world, antipodean absences, and such
world. Talk of immorality! I’ve heard of cases—what am I saying?—I’ve
      “has too much truth. The word is applied to many a woman who
“All we have to do,” said Mr Cunningham, “is to stand up with lighted
get a proper outfit for James. You must not forget that, Sibyl. Fifty
would have collapsed to his knees had not Tom held him upright.
      be much in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very


There was something she didn’t like in the look of things and Mr
bushes were as still as the white, worn stones which causewayed the
in this delicate boy.
in a light supper, and the young men sat down to it for form’s sake.
fleeting regard, and no more—“just enough to make him silly, and not

“And I shall never have brains,” added the Scarecrow.
gossamer on its head. I beckoned it to come near me; it stood soon at
      and humility.



thought my little Jane was all mine! I had a belief she loved me even
      “We may as well leave them by themselves you know;” said her
he paused opposite her empty bedroom in passing it. He thought of the
appearance of other people. It has had that excellent effect, amongst
good nature that banished every idea of pedantry. In a thousand ways
“Jane, be still; don’t struggle so, like a wild frantic bird that is



fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagination turbid with

“We might, perhaps, after all, make a few inquiries about—our relation
back.

But though she did not know it Henchard had become a changed man since
bond, he said, is a bond to sorrow. When they came out of the Park they
They both kissed Gabriel frankly. He was their favourite nephew, the
The band now struck up another melody, and by the time it was ended the
      of the speaker.

      out its beauties, and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that
the Winged Monkeys to you? They will carry you to the City of Oz in

with those who have denied the faith, and are worse than infidels!”
spectators: he looked at them with a smile both acrid and desolate.
him—the earth no longer a void. When his first-born was put into his
beautiful house before. But what gave it an air of breathless
“My name is Dorothy,” said the girl, “and I am going to the Emerald
mouth between his yellow teeth. Then he asked us which of us had the
morning shadows were curtailed, and the sun filled earth and sky—I got

benefactor—”
He had not entered the place for more than four years—not, indeed,
raise the wind, that I never had even a flirtation with anybody.
He threw the letter into her lap. She glanced over it, and handed it to
brushed them away hastily and looked again at the picture.
doing what I am going to do—what you force me to do—it is not of your
“the shade from his own soul up-thrown.”
By God, I’ll say for you, Joe! No, by God, you stuck to him like a

did you not tell me, instead of teasing me like this? How very
first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your
“My strength is quite failing me,” I said in a soliloquy. “I feel I
could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.
not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about
love. I pray you to give me a heart that I may be as other men are.”
“By-the-bye, I had nearly forgot. I bought a good deal of your
married this week at Port-Bredy. There were reasons against our doing
utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed and had broken
“Now, you’ll let the fire out the next time!” said the man striking at

oil-can, to guard against mishap.
car stopping outside. It was one of the watchers of the night before
on a dark-blue silk dress; her arms and her neck were bare; her only
      by the world in general, since Jane united with great strength

“You should have gone away when I asked you,” he muttered.
just come out of a shop over the way. She, on her part, was quite
she shrank back against the jamb of the waggon-office doorway to which

      himself need not disdain, and respectability which he will
the point of the exhibition lay in hearing the notes of love and
impart all that the brain conceives; though I daresay it would be
search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and
she used to know. It wasn’t until then that I connected this Gatsby
      room, “is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you

“Look at his wings,” said he, “he reminds me rather of a West Indian
I examined the document long: the writing was old-fashioned and rather

riotous island which extends itself due east of New York—and where
itself, was that he had nothing to say; the second reason was that he
deal wi’, and he has sold ’em growed wheat, which they didn’t know was

prevented you and got you to bide here. ’Tis turn and turn about, isn’t
given “To the garden!” Each put on a coarse straw bonnet, with strings
walking sternly behind.
crowds of Protestants in the chapel where Father Tom was preaching.”

of the coach: gathering my faculties, I looked about me. Rain, wind,
in her? Yet such, I grieve to say, is the case.”
engaged all day that he could not ask to see you before.”
state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed
certainly heals injury.”

The widow looked bewildered.
gentle-people and such like leading volk—wi’ the Mayor in the chair. As
lower hills. The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached

settle down like an ordinary mortal?”
Alleyne, gauging its fragility. A spasm of rage gripped his throat for
fulfilled? Such things were impossible. It seemed monstrous even to
they were given—to speak Heaven’s message in their ear,—to offer them,
by exotics, and tenanted by gold fish—and whence it must have been

“You are in the wrong,” replied the fiend; “and instead

She snapped her fingers. “Prince Charming is what you like to be


      with her at all, had she not felt certain that his flight was
“How long are you going to wait?”

The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like
Sometimes, preoccupied with her work, she sang the refrain very low,
“I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you. But you
      Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to his
violent than a quiet race in their time: perhaps, though, that is the
“Especially when one has been wounded by it,” answered Lord Henry.


difficult problem or two occupied his mind.
CHAPTER XXVII

my heart, who was so gentle, yet so gay! Victor, he is murdered!
or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world.

“It’s very important.”
“Very well,” said the Queen, “we trust you. But what shall we do?”
town, where their paths diverged right and left.


The barman brought their drinks. Little Chandler pushed one glass
black velveteen coat and waistcoat; and he had a silver-topped switch
“I want to get one of those dogs,” she said earnestly. “I want to get
the moment he saw it. The face was Newson’s.
them he has no use: I retain them.”
I don’t know a soul here.”
“The opera, is it?” said Mr Kernan.
“Ah, well,” said Ignatius Gallaher, “here we are in old jog-along
She turned to her husband.
John such a sum would have been valuable, for the good it would have
that all was not over and that he would still commit some signal crime,
frame. And if that boisterous Channel, and two hundred miles or so of
ever know yourself, Miss Newson?”
      quietly in the hall, till she and Kitty were out of sight, then
“besides, she would get tired of living with only you in the moon. If I


he was serene as glass.
of confused talk, and then Mr Browne got into the cab. The cabman
a surgeon; for master has had an accident; his horse fell and his ankle
on the recommendation of a jumped-up jackanapes of a fellow who


one?”
important personage than they do now. Indeed, the feeling of the
“He asked me and he questioned me, and then ’a wouldn’t hear my
“You talk books away,” he said; “why don’t you write one?”

      fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so
of a grade somewhat below that of the diners at the King’s Arms, each

the heart.”
rectangle of light which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind

      without any artificial appearance. Its banks were neither formal
inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension. My application was at
      elegant decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does
dead. A sea-monster had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver
Chapter XVII
salary will be thirty pounds a year: her house is already furnished,
      better stay till next week,’ you would probably do it, you would
up Daisy tomorrow and invite her over here to tea.”
we plainer fellows bain’t invited, they leave the winder-shutters open
shall still have the last word in every argument, and the casting vote
hands. To this they quite readily agreed, the majority being fine old
  Chapter 32
died. But don’t waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real
with nickel, swollen here and there in its monstrous length with


      that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this. But I

“After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart-broken

the direction of the murmur, my eye, traversing the hall-front, caught


      before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind


Ingram had been a good and noble woman, endowed with force, fervour,
“Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it. Those who are
“How ridiculous of all three of them!” said Elizabeth to herself.

that room eludes me, though I have a sharp physical memory that, in
“Quite.”
began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy earth! Fit habitation
amusements, if the other Councilmen would leave the matter in his




      As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution
signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she
      else. Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with
“That’s all right,” said the Stork, who was flying along beside them.
repressed her bitter tears. She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice
“You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray,” said Lord
“I am afraid you didn’t enjoy yourself at all,” said Mary Jane
some form of salutation.
as a matter of course. On a day when Henchard was on the premises he
      of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to
quietude before he should sink into that lower stage of existence which
      to her immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the
“Has she mentioned me lately?”
the rich pall over the picture. As he did so, a knock came to the door.
expected to arrive on the next day.
my usual chair in the corner while Nannie went to the sideboard and
fairs and markets keep me interested. How many things I think of while
with fear, for she knew what a powerful charm belonged to them. At

me; but the night being wet and inclement, Mr. Rochester did not


 X
dwindling.
paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you the
These letters are, in fact, related to that unhappy business. Though,
with Mason?”
covering his face with his hands, prayed. After an interval, he


and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who
about him? He means you no good.”
cloak—an unnecessary encumbrance, by-the-bye, on so warm a June
Rochester had said; they were not seated at table,—the supper was
soldiers.” The other teachers, poor things, were generally themselves
I sat on the front steps with them while they waited for their car.

      expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of
and put them with the shillings in a high remote pocket, with an air of
      subject on which Mrs. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and
“I am sure she is something not right!” they cried, one and all. “She
      atonement—for inheriting their father’s estate; and he thought it
      When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been
      particularly fond of, that I may have it to-morrow.”
As a maxim glibly repeated from childhood remains practically unmarked
      owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often

indifferent potatoes and strange shreds of rusty meat, mixed and cooked

“I thought you were a lady,” said Mr Holohan, walking away from her

practicality—that was close at hand.





In a few minutes the latter emerged, bag in hand. Henchard looked at
      girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem. Her heart did
vision into towers, gables, chimneys, and casements, the highest
      contented with laughing at them, would never exert himself to
quite red, as if you had been about some mischief: what were you
round the corner, awaking the echoes of every stock and stone in
What is the matter?”
nestled close to me, and now it ran from me; but whatever mood the
festering, the wounds of our minds. Enter the house of mourning, my

everything in the world that a man can want. There is no one who would
the blood and he was just then under doctor’s care. Mrs Malins, who had
possessed of magic powers, the monster had blinded me to his real
go. Ah! can’t you see that my heart is breaking?” The hot tears came to
“If you are hurt, and want help, sir, I can fetch some one either from
better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better

      “I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying
fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.

“‘For me,’” Henchard read, “‘there is practically no future. A creature
      with little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again
interminable time over everything.
of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to
      It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.

My first quarter at Lowood seemed an age; and not the golden age
in spectral procession, and wild shadows to fling themselves across his

Lord Henry laughed. “I don’t desire to change anything in England
      “Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than

      and happily I am not in such circumstances as to make five
wish.”
affection, it seemed, he could not have for me; it had been only fitful
I coveted a cake of bread. With that refreshment I could perhaps regain
      is as good a creature as ever lived—and her nieces are very
He shook his head.
      and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.

mistake. They wouldn’t have dared to have treated her like that if she
to me yet about the employment he had promised to obtain for me; yet it
wolf’s den, unguarded: you were safe.”
saw nothing about fairies, nothing about genii; no bright variety
“Hasn’t got any name.”


This the Woodman did, and as Dorothy lay close beside the Lion and held
years; and I read this morning in the newspapers that the snow is

which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he


much about them. I drove from the station directly to Gatsby’s house
“A new man she liked better—that’s bad!”
“Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken
accustomed of an afternoon to present a cup of cider or ale and
      mother. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I


compared with my Morton girls.
“I am glad you have been able to sleep,” he said, taking her hand with
      every subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not
deliberately—
      “You must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied Elizabeth.
      allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in her

its own sake. He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance. He

were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they

“We don’t want any light. We have light enough from the street. And I
dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the
form and feature, her complexion and her general air, suggested the
“Ay—that I do—hee-hee, such doggery as there was in them ancient days,
brothers—he is quite a Gibson. Oh, I wish he would cease tormenting me
rain—bad animal!”
that I can never do.”
mill, anyhow he began to walk round the statue.”
had some excuse for not risking her happiness in his hands after once
In a wardrobe were many green dresses, made of silk and satin and
he so quietly submit to the concealment Mr. Rochester enforced? Why
Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the
“Don’t tell me, old sport.” He winced. “Anyhow—Daisy stepped on it. I
      pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of
not yet found the key. I never laughed at presentiments in my life,
      “While I can have my mornings to myself,” said she, “it is
I wish you’d tell anybody who’d be interested.”
      shook hands with great cordiality; and then, till her sister came
      it came from Netherfield. The envelope contained a sheet of
wanted to ask you. Have you ever heard anything from your father’s
wedding-night!_” Such was my sentence, and on that night would the
on the evening I drove over there to have dinner with the Tom
When the lamps were lighted, and it was yet not so dark as to render
opened.

“I will tell you in your private ear,” replied she, wagging her turban
      hurried home with the great intelligence. On the following
there anything the matter, Janet, that you come to meet me at such an
      making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be
“I think we have: at least I’m tired. Mary, are you?”
not at home until an hour after the accident. The jury returned a

“It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it
gorgeous frocks of silver and gold and purple; and shepherds dressed in

ever. Perhaps one never seems so much at one’s ease as when one has to
sorrow. What about the young Duke of Perth? What sort of life has he

dress. But no. The reasonableness of almost everything that Elizabeth
and wax candles shining in bright solitude, amid the exquisite flowers

as if to speak: but he checked the coming sentence, whatever it was.

and was led to one of the best houses in the town. I was ready to sink from
      “He is just what a young man ought to be,” said she, “sensible,
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
“What trees?” said Lucetta, absorbed in watching for Henchard.
      entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive
      “His manners are very different from his cousin’s.”
afterwards, and may as well mention them now.

her in the face without a blush.”
had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse
taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take

than that the lower parish was favoured with. Among the rest of the

sight.”
found the room apparently empty.
      good opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with

      friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as
inconsistencies—of Nature’s jaunty readiness to support unorthodox
months after the marriage. There was an ugly story about it. They said
I was pondering these things, when an incident, and a somewhat


“Then the romance of the sower is gone for good,” observed
enough at an answer, there are times when it sadly fails me in framing
before the ‘vulgar herd’ (them’s her words). I must show her into a
“Stuff—he’s well enough! Some folk want their luck buttered. If I had a
“Kill the Wicked Witch of the West,” answered Oz.
something like covering a child with a cloak and laying it down near a
Gatsby didn’t know me now at all. I looked once more at them and they
into an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret.
      assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
the old time-stained marble tomb, where a kneeling angel guarded the
not see even my subjects, and so they believe I am something terrible.”
and a person like a servant was standing at it: I saw her face and
      consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr.
      Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in
      in no humour to indulge him. The rest of the evening passed with
minutes I was going to enter into their lives, and no one would ever
ire. All said I was wicked, and perhaps I might be so; what thought had


attempt to call at Farfrae’s with them that night. He reached home,
      my nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the
“It’s the weather,” said Aunt Julia, after a pause.
shipmates times enough, but I’m as ignorant as a child how many glasses
experienced, the indulgence with which she was treated, went beyond her
leaving me with Mr. Wolfshiem at the table.
grave or mine.”
anyone.

go alone; and yet they all wished to go. A negotiation was opened

belongs to me, or will do in a few years. Go and stand by the door, out
“Thank you very much,” said the Scarecrow, when he had been set down on
shores for five years when he turned up as James Gatz’s destiny in


“Besides, the fire is too hot for you,” interposed Mary.
friendly word to you, if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to
“Well, Dorian,” he said at length, with a sad smile, “I won’t speak to
worn down to obtuseness, partly by weather, more by friction from
that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; they were

remains of really remarkable ugliness. She had proved an excellent wife

of humour, of humanity, which the new and very serious and

      supply the idea. She had not herself forgotten to feel that the
“And how could he know that I should be such a simpleton as to believe
stockings were better looked to!—when I was here last, I went into the

cruel—she cannot help being mad.”
room; and as Helen Burns is with you, she may come too.”
      assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself
      Elizabeth. “It must be something particular, to take him there at
      “Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are
walking up and down Dublin for nearly a month, with his hands and
Christopher Coney was silenced, and as he could get no public sympathy,
      pain to speak ill of a Darcy. But she is too much like her

from them, and conscience is either killed, or, if it lives at all,
      him.”


were the Le Sueurs, an old family who have done great things in their
estate eligible to the last degree; though (God pardon me!) I told her
      because if liable to such defects of temper, she could not
adequate cause; forbear to waste them on trite transient objects. Do
“Come back, has she!”

      astonishment. How long has she been such a favourite?—and pray
They agreed to say nothing of what they had learned, and went back to
      “Yours, etc.”
“Do explain,” I urged, when he halted once more.


fearful, the unbelieving, &c., shall have their part in the lake which

disposition; and I’ll let everybody at Lowood know what you are, and
had no meaning in its wandering: this gave him an odd look, such as I

nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face. An old, pointed blue
“And what colour’s your car?”
lighting a cigarette.
Golden Cap, whosoever he may be.”

country. My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth
can be hushed, never more to be heard. These are the reflections of
      Elizabeth was forced to go.
side, nor near him, nor with him. He has no indulgence for me—no
      true Darcy spirit, she may like to have her own way.”
only one man in it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse
without a stick or a rag, and the master of that house is you.”
“Appearances would warrant that conclusion: and, no doubt (though, with
she insisted upon paring one for him.

      they always are. The dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably
recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on. I blamed none of those who
majority and the command of the divisional machine-guns. After the
      his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would
      was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the
halted, puffing with labour and vexation, and knocked. The shrill voice
lived in the forest near Gayelette’s palace, and the old fellow loved a

      This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham’s being among them.
      library, where such and such officers had attended them, and
“The story is simply this,” said the painter after some time. “Two
forehead and the narrative to which he listened made constant waves of
With the progress of the dance the performers spread out somewhat, and
the moon. Now it was again a green light on a dock. His count of
      lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most
probably, be a good way from the town.”
“Of course, with their ages, slightly edited. But nothing must be done
      preceding day, opened to them a new idea on the business. Nothing
has just died is better off than I am. I have no terror of death. It is
lightness of heart took kindly to what fate offered.

lonely uplands, the latter in oiled boots and tilt bonnets, to see the
I, “but you see Mr. Rochester evidently prefers her to any of the other

succeeded to fortune.
polo player” for the rest of the evening.

 Doth close behind him tread.
lover.
clouds took on fantastic shapes and scurried here and there in the
      proposal to the same woman? There is no indignity so abhorrent to
      bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so she asked

      “Yes,” thought Elizabeth, “_that_ would be a delightful scheme
address divers remarks and reproofs to Miss Smith, who was charged with

out himself; he was not quick either of vision or conception; but Eliza
      or feared it most, she could scarcely determine. After sitting in
they had been eaten away by disease. The appearance was so ghastly by
      immoral habits; that among his own connections he was esteemed
      hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite enquiries

“Good-bye, Mr. Brocklehurst; remember me to Mrs. and Miss Brocklehurst,
absolutely necessary to me.”
“Your wife! Dorian! ... Didn’t you get my letter? I wrote to you this
expostulate. He would then say, with a peculiar smile, more solemn than
He assumed such a comical face and voice that the distribution of the
With this announcement he rose from his chair, and stood, leaning his
“Fanning and himself seem to me very thick. They’re often in Kavanagh’s
“It is very well we took her in.”
She did not answer at once. Then she said in an outburst of tears:
it’s labour produces everything. The working-man is not looking for fat
kind and companionable, I should have deemed it a treat to spend the
my other sufferings. I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds
clock struck eight, and thereupon a bell began to toll with a
Walking along the lane at dusk the stranger was struck by two or three
only been a spectator of the proceedings at Lowood; I was now to become
“Isn’t he incorrigible?” cried Dorian, leaning forward in his chair.

Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various
Clericalis Disciplina a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real
which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child, who came
cheese-cakes and French pastry, to truss game and garnish
the balcony, I was about to murmur ‘Mon ange’—in a tone, of course,

      assure him how happy he would make them by eating a family dinner
heartless, sensual pleasure—such as dulls intellect and blights
her hands, she opened a certain little drawer, full of splendid shreds
He had passed visibly through two states and was entering upon a
evidently potent with him: he will never set you at defiance or



removed from it; the creases left by the wet smoothed out: it was quite


“I was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room.”
      reached it only to a late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though
I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are,
the return of Newson without absolute proof that the Captain meant to
      the Park every day. I am the happiest creature in the world.
letter recommended itself by its indirectness.
      glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
“On a frosty winter afternoon, I rode in sight of Thornfield Hall.
our hearts.”
      forward with delight to the time when they should be removed from
pretty that, as it seemed, he was experiencing the momentary weakness
bondage to which she was now reduced. She instructed her daughter in
that is to have in it all the passion of the romantic spirit, all the
      “But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I

But the Scarecrow said, “We cannot fly, that is certain. Neither can we
not seen for so long a time. I knew my silence disquieted them, and I
      malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should
’ee no harm that he’s the man.”
and how a dozen people had sent their love through me.
sentiment of pity. Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my
its would-be occupiers.
“I have a crow to pluck with you.”
Lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the Scarecrow patted himself
quarters. She herself said that it was not quite brown enough.
      deigned to return. What could be the meaning of it? It was
permanent one. The vision of Elizabeth’s earnest face in the rimy dawn
promenaders was towards a particular spot in the Walks, and eventually

dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare’s plays and left them
moment, as though to hide their secret. When they opened, the mist of a
The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the
quiet liking for her little self: just as I cherished towards Mrs.
judgment—I wash my hands thereof. For man’s opinion—I defy it.”
      The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to
      “Yes, she did.”
perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion; he placed his hands before
might soon be about, and he provided for such contingencies by

Series had been fixed in 1919, but if I had thought of it at all I
sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her

Daisy and Gatsby danced. I remember being surprised by his graceful,

had quite intended to effect a grand catastrophe at the end of this
“No one has. People will some day, however. She is a genius.”
I was still looking at them, and also at intervals examining the
      After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy
a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man
nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to

unlike his colleague. He appeared about fifty years of age, but with an
but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and


      been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by
“You are unusual,” replied Glinda.
and hay merchant on his own account.

leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all.”
you will marry him, Jane, won’t you? And then he will stay in England.”
the houses but round about by the road. But under every householder’s
arm of a jovial well-fed man, who was dressed smartly in a frock-coat

able to exercise whenever he wished—and, indeed, exercised often
compromising her indescribably in the past. The least he could have
among the thoughtful who have suffered early from poverty and
its unreality, and should combine the insincere character of a romantic

false front of French curls.

the Arabian, who understood very little and conversed in broken
He looked grave. “What now? What sudden eagerness is this you evince?

high hob of the semi-egg-shaped grate. Lucetta, light as a sylph, ran
      for me to determine.”
unheeded on his ear. He collected together from all parts of the world
good-bye and sent me to you,” said the girl.
“I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its
      the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a project. She
Farfrae invited him into the dining-room, where he at once unlocked the
“Oh, let us start for the Emerald City tomorrow!”
desirable. He went to her house, at first with other officers from
chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to
“What have you heard? What do you see?” asked St. John. I saw nothing,
round the room; the sea, which I could hear from thence, rumbled dull
may not be his friend if I would. I would understand why there should
firing sufficient for the consumption of several days.
“Is Mr. Rochester an exacting, fastidious sort of man?”


small talk. How I wished sleep would silence her. It seemed as if,

me when she heard that I was her governess; and as I led her in to
      Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol,
gentleman with the greyish moustache had made her, coloured with shame
into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his
younger man, his constant liking to have Farfrae near him, now and then
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts.
from matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a

I spent my Saturday nights in New York because those gleaming,
had voted him to the chief magistracy on account of his amazing energy.
from Gatsby’s, with innumerable receptacles to contain it. An hour
“I came on purpose to find you, Jane Eyre,” said she; “I want you in my

      earlier. I believe him to be Lady Catherine’s _nephew_. It will

“I am afraid not,” said Jopp, who had not told the other of his
woman the sun shines on.”
You should have kept along the turnpike road, friend, and not have
on your things; go out by the kitchen-door: take the road towards the
man—what was his name?—with the sort of blue nose.”

upon an abundant yield. So he went on buying old corn at its

      her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she returned to
his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence.
no idea of taking his arm, nor he of offering it; and far from

      imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things, though the
“All right, thanks.... Thanks.”
and that....”
I gave an involuntary half start at hearing the _alias_: I had
has been my foe.”

lately, however. They have had my own divorce-case and Alan Campbell’s


sideboard.
      without any reference to any other account, the circle in

to be baffled by a little stiffness on your part; I’m prepared to go to
      during the chief of the day was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen
      fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is
condescension, and added: “Some sensation!” Whereupon everybody
We stayed a day at Mannheim, and on the fifth from our departure from
      “La! You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We
overhangs it. Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix. This
I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were always unsuccessful, I
gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains. The mere lines looked
      was in every respect so altered a creature, that when she went
“Then I must speak for it,” continued the deep, relentless voice.

“I had nothing else to do, because it was the vacation, and I sat at


they found seating accommodation. The gentlemen were all well dressed
behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him.
the best ending for one,” said the young lord, plucking another daisy.
a worktable by the wall, and Tom, with his back to us, was bending

So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into
away, leaving the group sorrowing.
through a private marriage ceremony, besides that performed at the

“This is a nice restaurant here,” said Mr. Wolfshiem, looking at the
words about not daring to ask her what he fain would. Elizabeth, that
stories, whose small-paned lattices were screened by dimity curtains on
magistrates.)
      years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my mother’s
September night-shades had fallen upon Casterbridge; the clocks had
contrasted oddly with her black stuff gown.

the pillow.
was blanched as her gown.
mat at the foot of the staircase. I heard the dining-room door unclose;

converse.
      how she liked it. The housekeeper came forward, and told them it
brake. Then she fell over into my lap and I drove on.
to whatever revelations had been made her.
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
“This much scourging, then, it is for me.” But now through his
than to him who had given me life? Among the lessons that Felix had
this moment like a top, tended to, and began in. Her eyes fell

dingy stains of paint where I had tried the tint in my pencil. I
      disclose the real truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!”
on the table, for it was now getting dark. There was the great
wide, long room, with great deal tables, two at each end, on each of
soothingly. “We can think to-morrow what is best to do about him. The
      pounds, were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and
nonsense about him. He just says to himself: ‘The old one never went to
      and, when the carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise
      “This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a
you.”
      rode a black horse.
“Very nicely, indeed.”
choose this occasion for a scene—especially for the rather harrowing
and went to welcome him: afterwards she insisted on my taking off my
cannet! I want to see the warrld.”
the table.
James Vane bit his lip. “Watch over Sibyl, Mother,” he cried, “watch
they came to the age of twenty-four. He sent the elder daughter,
Dorothy’s room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water was
crime, notwithstanding that he himself had been the chief sufferer
      than Mr. Darcy.”
district which had been his dealing ground in bygone years. Part of the
your stepdaughter! He—Mr. Newson—whom my poor mother married by such a

hay-trusser deposited his basket by the font, went up the nave till he
So they picked up Toto and put the dog in Dorothy’s lap, and then they
senses will imagine them for us. There are moments when the odour of
      very likely more.” Then addressing her daughter, “Oh! my dear,
cook and the dummy had begun to clear away the tea-things! She went
about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the
      every other woman in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for
the upper windows of his house, appeared momentarily in each, and,
were at home. I came into this room, and the sight of the empty chair
The Winged Monkeys
wonderful sight.
medium of custom, conventionalities, nor even of mortal flesh;—it is my
The other members of the household, viz., John and his wife, Leah the
take our stiff straw hats.
      “I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that
      mentioned, and that though my brother thought that he could not
more about it.”
      possible.”
bending to the child’s face he shouted:



water-carafe. He replaced the morsel of food on his plate and read the
said he; “you can go down; I’ll give Miss Jane a lecture till you come
the street in which Henchard lived, and almost opposite his door.
green he was completely covered with cracks, running every which way


later date by other people. That Mr. Farfrae “walked with that bankrupt
party. Perhaps his presence gave the evening its peculiar quality of
“Was he by himself?” asked the manager.
indifferent ideas of principle or justice: still, such as she was, I
mixed that day, partly in his mercantile mood and partly in his
      certainly to his credit.”
“I’m afraid I won’t be able to,” I said.
silent. The song seemed to be in the old Irish tonality and the singer
was.
      “Have you any other objection,” said Elizabeth, “than your belief

      effectually making his fortune by marriage in some other country.

nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had
By a whirl Henchard brought Donald dangerously near the precipice;

lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings and

hasty advance.
therefore sent her away for the morning. Say you come on business—I
rub o’t.”
      astonishment.
Divine spirit in his need.
Henchard’s man was most in the wrong, he therefore attempted to back
quickly retreated. There being no other way out she stood behind a
“You must know Gatsby.”
“See it! I have other fish to fry. You see it. It will be worth
follow; and to look at Mr. Rochester’s face was to feel that not a
to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving. He was a
      were gained.
      relates to poor Lydia. An express came at twelve last night, just
    Rise from bed                                  6:00      a.m.
to the destinies and designs of human beings; and, passing over all
The old man returned with a few lumps of coal which he placed here and
again.”

      that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better
clearer rent-roll,—he’s dished—”
not die: but I said she did—I wish she had died!”

      “There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however,
“It seems, in spite of dangers, that the best thing Dorothy can do is

request in an absurd, almost insolent form. Miss Eyre, I beg your
despair than to transgress a mere human law, no man being injured by
guilt, I must be condemned, although I would pledge my salvation on my
Speaking very slowly, he told him to tell the house-keeper that he
grain, and other stock; and finally entered the offices where the
“I want to see you,” said Tom intently. “Get on the next train.”
her, of a fleeting kind. Thereupon promptly came to the surface that

      out, led the way across the street, under pretense of wanting
’natomies, except I were out o’ work. But money is scarce, and throats
“He asked me who the nominators were; and I told him. I mentioned


want to! Daisy! Dai—”
      my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss
visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness. But it is even so; the

black stuff travelling-dress, prepared my bonnet, gloves, and muff;
the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder. Oh! in what a
up at the lighted windows and listening to the waltz music. The air was
      “No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and


hotel, then they would be alone together. He would call her softly:
“Whatever you like. I leave both the choice of subject and the manner
half hid in the recess of the mountain. Oh, surely the spirit that inhabits
      With a stronger voice she soon added, “I have this comfort

The cottage which Michael Henchard hired for his wife Susan under her
“Very well,” answered the little man. “But I shall have to cut a hole
“I was shut up in a room where there is a ghost till after dark.”

who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing.
      “Upon my word,” said Mrs. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your
expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me in

She stopped suddenly as if to listen. I too listened; but there was no
to the squat misshapen figure that flattened itself into the shadow as
Lowood: plain fare, simple attire, unsophisticated accommodations,
“No, I’ll not say that. O no!”
      dear, dear aunt,” she rapturously cried, “what delight! what
behind him, and he was liable at the whim of an impersonal government
and goodness. He himself could not help wondering at the calm of his
The Rescue
about him wildly but, seeing no way of escape, fell upon his knees.
About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one
      Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. She followed
      Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that
“I was great with him at that time,” she said.
      think you could not do better. But as it is, you must not let
he been made like that? Why had such a soul been given to him? But he
rapture would succeed a lifetime of regret. This I know.”
offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s notice and at the
dragged me through all the hideous and degrading agonies which must
ingenuous; sufficiently intelligent; gay, lively, and unthinking: she
      married. A resemblance in good humour and good spirits had
a reflection from the aspect of an angel. Yet at that moment Helen

“Who would not be the Rizzio of so divine a Mary?”
      “I know them a little. Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike
two of the Monkeys caught Dorothy in their arms and flew away with her.
said Novalis, and Farfrae’s character was just the reverse of
his orders, when the light once more gleamed dimly on the gallery wall,

to the prospect of death? Why do I struggle to retain a valueless life?
“Why,” thought I, “does she not explain that she could neither clean
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
British artist. Did you advertise for it? You should.”
“Mr. Campbell, sir,” said the man.
The river here was deep and strong at all times, and the hatches on

      able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her
make such a noise. Move off.”
 Chapter XII. The Search for the Wicked Witch

“What nonsense, Dorian!” laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded
to remain a sailor, or a supercargo, or whatever he was going to be.
consideration on that account, who had lived waiting for him, who at
stump—a ghastly sight! Don’t you think so, Jane?”
off, but the Wicked Witch was angry to find them in her country; so she
and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss
peasantry. And that is saying a great deal; for after all, the British
white—this being the body of labourers waiting for places. The long
Contents

Thornfield for a fortnight together, since the death of his brother
Mr Holohan seemed to be in a hurry; he advised her to speak to Mr
engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I
careless in that respect, appearing in suits which were historical
      together.
the fire.
step gained; I shall strive to overcome them. To-morrow, I trust, I

bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy? I am
“Explain! What is there to explain? You cannot fail to see that twenty
Had she lost her heart to any other man in the world than the one he
      and Charlotte appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at
      he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other
infallible Master. I am not going out under human guidance, subject to
      “If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have


      “Oh! but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is
“If I had’ve known.” But what would grammar matter if he really loved
called for a direct answer. The situation had not been gradually led up
      his way to Longbourn on purpose to enquire after her. Mr. Darcy
“No, Harry,” answered the artist, giving his hat and coat to the bowing
a policeman, but he knew I lied. I was so excited that when I got into

you.”


“How can I get to her castle?” asked Dorothy.
      in so authoritative a tone, as marked her self-importance, and

tentatively.
      would get him at last; and her expectations of advantage to her
      with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was
Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and



my destruction. Shall I not then hate them who abhor me? I will keep
was only too possible to him now.
      to him which I have since made.”
I had heard of it before. Mr. Rochester often spoke of it, and
man’s throat. In a few seconds he opened his eyes and looked about him.
      fear, and nothing to reproach him with. Thank God! I have not
Rochester affirmed I was wearing him to skin and bone, and threatened
      drawing-room, before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull
in from New York.”
There was a pause in the very breathing of the clerks. Everyone was
with whitewashed walls and a sanded floor, containing four painted
absolutely reasonable. I think that is their distinguishing
household, because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her
      with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
justified in daring the world’s opinion, in order to attach to him for
      breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the
journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they
and believed so little.

the educated; and when I got to know them, and they me, this difference
spread with white carpets, on which seemed laid brilliant garlands of
followed by a soft closing of the door. In a moment she appeared.
      consideration these twenty years at least.”
      “If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall

“I told you I am independent, sir, as well as rich: I am my own
in, Sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress, which they


unexpectedly, after two highballs, she became cordial.

here. I always feel easier in my mind when he’s here.... Julia, there’s
choice as wide as the ocean sea I wouldn’t wish for a better man. A
incident of her marriage?


they were the expressive eyes of Henry, languishing in death, the dark
      meadows; but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the
Henchard had backed bad weather, and apparently lost. He had mistaken
inspection of a beginner in charge. Henchard preceded her through the
They were good sons, wrote regularly and sometimes sent home money. The
      full courses.
out.”
“I’ve not been always what I am now,” continued Henchard, his firm deep
you wonder that these men were moved? They looked at one another and were
beset by sharpers: John is sunk and degraded—his look is frightful—I
“Yes, ma’am—but she looks such a tinkler.”
      testified such concern in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was
my once more tasting the life his glance can give me? I rave: perhaps
and intellectual. It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty

      Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded
      “You can _now_ have nothing further to say,” she resentfully
And where is Mr. Rochester?
      regulation.”
a hubbub in the distance, that increased moment by moment. It did not
fact that he had been victimised he resented such low playing of the

      most animated language of the violence of my affection. To
herself, had gone away, leaving her daughter to return at her own
     Embrace fond woe, or cast our cares away;

agitation which had half carried the point of affection with her; yet,
the funeral, but Georgiana entreated me to stay till she could get off

turn of the scales he remained silent. The movements of his mind seemed
thought’—who is it who says that? I forget; but it is what Dorian Gray
light, and when he went into the dark it was worse, for there he heard
through it. A red pencil-mark on the fifth page caught his eye. It drew
Elizabeth-Jane sitting beside him, wrapped in a thick flat fur—the
These improvements, however, are somewhat in advance of the story.
Henchard can’t hold a candle to him—hey?”
the matter for me to Mr. Brocklehurst, or some of the committee, and
      shrubbery the next day, “you will give your mother-in-law a few
do? Let her sleep unmolested.”
      every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing
attracted her both by their subject and by their accent—a strange one
      acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined air

whose head made damp the pyjama pocket over his heart!
some life-giving elixir: they were gay from morning till noon, and from
themselves, they would surely have destroyed me. As it was, I lived in
monarch, on a night-journey, had stopped to change horses at the King’s
Mr Duffy sat on his stool and gazed at them, without seeing or hearing
of the tent, she left it, and drove away.
suppose you and the child were dead and gone. I took every possible

“Driving out of the Mansion House,” said Mr Henchy, “in all my vermin,
      finally settled.” And rising as she thus spoke, she would have
word _doctrinaire_—word full of terror to the British mind—reappeared
tenderly to constitute himself my tyrant: he would have given me half

take deadly vengeance on its frame.”
silent on much the heart experiences. Mobile and flexible, it was never


Next she stood upon her right foot and said:
discovered from its commencement to be from your father. I instantly wrote

      her niece, and they walked on together. After a short silence,
      garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window

through the unveiled panes, her glorious gaze roused me. Awaking in the
his shoulders with one hand.
they spoke well of her; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they
pocket every minute he was in the house—” He broke off defiantly.
At this date there prevailed in Casterbridge a convivial
wretchedness. Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver
      returned home, the ——shire was to leave Meryton in a week or
Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the
      some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity
whether he was a nice gentleman, and if I liked him. I told her he was
bridal dinner, and found her lying on her bed as lovely as the June

      nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of
      the day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lydia’s
me what you mean by your ‘Well, sir?’ It is a small phrase very
Ferndean is buried, as you see, in a heavy wood, where sound falls
They examined it curiously; observing the rows of trumpet-shaped tubes
woman who had religiously adhered to her purchaser, as too many rural
But the pretty milkmaid was much too vexed to make any answer. She
plaintive by distance and by the singer’s hoarseness, faintly
At poor old Mr. Joker?
the house; and I followed her upstairs and downstairs, admiring as I
had been readily apparent to Elizabeth-Jane, simple as she seemed, and
      tell you what it is. Make haste, and come down this moment.”

proved, and energy exercised, and fortitude tasked—that he will speak


_can_ tell it me—what of Mr. Rochester? How and where is he? What is he
“I haven’t such a bad opinion of the Jesuits,” he said, intervening at

bare hallway to let in another guest. It was well for her she had not

door of the Brocklehurst Arms there: each went her separate way; she


and glorify your Father which is in heaven.”—St. Matt. v. 16.
like.’ And are we going to insult the man when he comes over here on a
think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies.”
      down again and soon dining at Longbourn, and the conclusion of
      “It is no such thing. Lydia does not leave me because she is
pretended to be surprised. For just a minute I wondered if I wasn’t
accepting something as costly. I smiled as I unfolded it, and devised
“A careless girl!” said Mr. Brocklehurst, and immediately after—“It is
     The day that brings us Freedom’s reign.


or suspected her guilt, she would be playing of some of her malignant
      should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion,

Mr Power stood up to officiate, offering her his chair. She declined
Farewell.”


me. By dying young, I shall escape great sufferings. I had not
touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was

      gentleman did by no means intend; for he would certainly think
not, perhaps, at all times accustomed, and which both charmed and
bed for several days. During this interval, one of the servants,
have got used to you, and I shall soon have another set of people to
your Elizabeth-Jane—the child who was in my arms when you sold me. No;

that you are ill-treated, neglected, miserable. Then, too, existence
The lad frowned. “I don’t like that explanation, Harry,” he rejoined,

solitary and hated, Helen. Look here; to gain some real affection from
in and he’s too polite to object.”

and meeting the eyes of Lucetta. He wished to consider his course in a
      disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
“They’ll keep out of my way,” she insisted. “It takes two to make an
      which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as to the
irrepressible yawns attested her weariness. A frequent interlude of
proprietor of a needle-factory and iron-foundry in the valley. The same
in her history and yours—she left it to be a governess: there, again,
grave as any judge. No need to warn her not to disarrange her attire:
      ventured to engage for her attendance, and the day after the next

“Naturally! Yes, but we are not to conform to nature; I wish these
to respond heartily and promptly to her invitation.
      without telling us that you were coming out.”
      have not an instant to lose.”
      no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family! Do
with his candle lit, and the curtains got on fire; but, fortunately, he


      Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”
thanks, I should have gone on my way and not felt any vocation to renew
denote even the movements of breathing. Henchard went on: “I’d rather
I am not a champion of marriage. The real drawback to marriage is that

      This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned as
life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that

This made her very miserable, and she looked about for her mother; but
We passed a barrier of dark trees, and then the façade of Fifty-Ninth
“Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the
who had written to Mr. Lloyd, received his answer: it appeared that
To much confabulation succeeded a sound of scrubbing and setting to
“He seemed a well-be-doing man—had grey hair and a broadish face; but
wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.
Miller approaching, seemed to ask her a question, and having received
wouldn’t stop.”
of furniture looking just as it did on the morning I was first
“You are animated—then you are thinking of getting on. You are sad the
discerned his late antagonist.

      commendation, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing


third husband, Lord Henry! You don’t mean to say Ferrol is the fourth?”
table, and said she was sorry she hadn’t a sup of porter to drink it
      “What say you to the day? I think every thing has passed off
be pursuit? Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the
well-braced musical instrument, which had awakened the interest of
what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of
It was lucky the Scarecrow and the Woodman were wide awake and heard
      “Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the
a friendly little nod, whirled around on her left heel three times, and
with gratification. The more he knew, the more he desired to know. He
get a glimpse of Mr. Rochester; then she coined pretexts to go
He might have despised himself, for he had certainly taken her under
      situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage
He took her hand at parting, and held it so warmly that she, who had

Straightway a great flock of wild crows came flying toward her, enough
      and not to any disrespect for her.”
peeping out of a side-pocket of his tight reefer overcoat. On the
figure. He had a big face which resembled a young ox’s face in
beauty is a strong expression; but I do not retrace or qualify it: as
      understanding excellent, her mind improved, and her manners
“What did you say, my dear? I am a little deaf,” returned the good


yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the dæmon
that the young lady was sitting down beside her.
his surprise, that before the throne was a Ball of Fire, so fierce and
steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the
subject of you.”
how to avert the danger.”
weeks I was promoted to a higher class; in less than two months I was

      he is liberal-minded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and

I now made arrangements for my journey, but one feeling haunted me
call it honour.”
you are sure to get.”
turmoil of her feeling with grand control.
than a romantic person, but she never put her own romantic ideas away.
Going down the stairs his glasses became so dimmed with moisture that
have it in my power to supply deficiencies for this once.”
I hadn’t been looking at them, but I did now. They were composed of
confused answers as were calculated rather to check than encourage

up, but, egad, Kelso ate his chop alone at the club for some time
before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed,
Mr O’Connor nodded.
“Yes,” she said, “it is a pretty place; but I fear it will be getting


stockings and small white satin sandals.
“Pity!” he said, and sighed and paused. “It is always the way of events
So they sat down upon the bank and gazed wistfully at the Scarecrow
the evening papers, reminding the music-loving public of the treat
retired for the night, I took the boat and passed many hours upon the
had ever heard.

disused distillery or upwards along the shallow river on which Dublin
man.
      it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it
      Elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the
Accordingly I sat and said nothing: “If he expects me to talk for the
I may use the phrase, a thought-tormented age: and sometimes I fear
      Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
he, “I would not that a mutilated one should go down to
articles I made up in a parcel; my purse, containing twenty shillings
besides: she showed virile force in the contest—more than once she
village in his van by a wave of the broadsheet. And thinking the
Rutland Square and felt more at ease in the dark quiet street, the
“Where did you get your copies?”
resounded like distant musketry, and an out-door man could be excused
recover balance. He looked her oddly in the face, losing his awe.
      defective. The idea of the olive-branch perhaps is not wholly
I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and discrimination,
man from New Orleans. In June she married Tom Buchanan of Chicago,
“She is my aunt who lives in Kansas, where I came from.”
in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him. I
      was reading a sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in

they are full of mischief and think it great fun to plague us.”

of a country. Don’t be afraid. There are exquisite things in store for
almost without lines: besides, what is in a palm? Destiny is not
secondly, whether it at all resembled the fancy miniature I had painted

      “We will be down as soon as we can,” said Jane; “but I dare say
on, to feed and litter down the horses. He had reached the granary
“Mortally: after all, it’s tough work fagging away at a language with
rays streamed into its depths as into a hazel copse. Her face, though
was young, and all sorts of fancies bright and dark tenanted my mind:
      he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has
fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep.
from the slush. She had no longer any grace of attitude but Gabriel’s
a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen. The screen
      affected incredulity.
had observed it, he might almost have regarded it as an idle
to know what had become of him followed me everywhere; when I was at
the room.
Henchard, and of Elizabeth-Jane and of the Three Mariners’ jovial crew,
endeavoured to read. I could make no sense of the subject; my own
which could not be closed because of the smoky chimney within. At last
moonlight at intervals; I can see a good way on the road. He may be
doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit
except for the half-hour she’d been alone with Gatsby she wasn’t
with a book or dozing in the arena had, on lifting their eyes, beheld
senses, and the senses by means of the soul.” Yes, that was the secret.
“O no, sir,—sit down. You must come and sit down now you are here,”
your girl, Georgiana, for it is she who tells lies, and not I.”
“To take a pick itself,” said Mary Jane, “after all your dancing.”
beside Henchard in the granary weighing oats.
that the body was not then cold. They instantly carried it to the cottage
forget, of course,” he resumed, “that curious chapter in the history of
“Yes; and when they go, I shall return to the parsonage at Morton:


“Are you very much in love with him?” he asked.

      her understand his character.”
friend, Margaret: when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there
      Bingley; “and I hope it will soon be increased by seeing her
word to him when he was with the chief clerk. The man felt that his

      excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.
honour, so blighted your youth, is not your wife, nor are you her
“Farewell!” was the cry of my heart as I left him. Despair added,
      Miss Bennets were come away, when her civility was claimed
century. No glamour ever transfigures them. One knows their minds as
to find my brother. If she had gone near the spot where his body lay,
trust him not. His soul is as hellish as his form, full of treachery
brilliantly—a happy touch or two secured success. There, I had a
“& that no sexton be asked to toll the bell.
“Jane is not such a weakling as you would make her,” he would say: “she
      uncle, a private had been flogged, and it had actually been
now of a mocking demon, and anon of a carrion-seeking bird of prey?
crossed Blackwell’s Island a limousine passed us, driven by a white
could not—marry Miss Ingram. You—you strange, you almost unearthly
      set you off in the first place?”
Luckily Farfrae’s figure was immediately covered by the apple-tree.
holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight. However,
neighbour the Church except in the lower storey, where an arched

she did not like to do so because she was a great friend of Kathleen’s
      so little expense or inconvenience to her family as under the

cure me of my faults; and even her praise, though I value it most
      Darcy’s explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good
sofa in a pretty room called the salon, and Sophie and I had little
the sky: the old world was beyond; clear prospects opened thus:—

“Shake!”
years, during which the boat went three times around the Continent.
evening conferences I thus thwarted and afflicted him. He continued to


      delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take

in her just heart without him.
      were silent. Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness
school-discipline (gathered from the young ladies of a family where she


it; there I shall be quiet and unmolested. I shall devote myself for a

      fortnight; for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his
      his friend by so doing!”
the front door and up the street.
contemplation.
Henchard and himself mutually forbore to meet. For Elizabeth’s sake the
say about Mr. Dorian Gray?”
weary, trembling limbs before I could reach human habitation—when cold
history?” he asked.

firm framework of the Englishman’s manner. A graceful image of his, he
above the din of everybody’s laughter:

southwards together. This letter in a degree recalled me to life, and
where her mother lay buried—the still-used burial-ground of the old
At last I saw Georgiana off; but now it was Eliza’s turn to request me
      elopement without the intention of marriage, she had no
“The men that is now is only all palaver and what they can get out of
“No mistake at all.”
the seat at the end of the garden.
a pupil at Lowood, and there being trained in conformity to her
      the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he
      love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company. The
hear him say that many times more before it happened, in the resigned
Fanning.... I’ve spent a lot of money’? Mean little shoeboy of hell! I
“Was it your suggestion?”

gently; and, if I do anything worthy of praise, she gives me my meed
      “But my dear Elizabeth,” she added, “what sort of girl is Miss

and stiff toes into my shoes in the morning. Then the scanty supply of
said you would surpass them in learning: and can you draw?”
      as their attentions raised them in her opinion. Her affections
must always remain so.”
Imaginative inhabitants, who would have felt an unpleasantness at the
      approbation alone. I roused, and interested you, because I was so
“Some were farm labourers; a good deal worked at Mr. Oliver’s
them, never fear!”
      subject. At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to
now’;—well, he may do worse than not to take her, if she’s

“Never mind, this’ll do,” said Mr O’Connor.
I fear I cannot do otherwise: for who will receive me? But it will be


     _Hushed are the winds and still the evening gloom,
To Elizabeth-Jane the time was a most triumphant one. The freedom she
moment of pleasure, but the girl has to bear the brunt. Some mothers
      Mrs. Bennet rang the bell, and Miss Elizabeth was summoned to the

bottom stood the village which lent its name to the upland and the
play—Hamlet, I think—how do they run?—
      friends than she had been in the way of procuring.
      addressed him a second time with:—“It is _your_ turn to say
only taught me to be vain.”
      three-and-twenty! Lord, how ashamed I should be of not being
“Does he never go out?” asked the Scarecrow.
      other side of the fireplace, that she might be further from the

beside her bed. And all the time something within her was crying for a
he remarked in a determined voice:
Gatsby took an arm of each of us and moved forward into the

must be more of her.”
escarpment, with a ditch yet visible without. Within the avenue and
      worse than she expected.

thing she should have that fit: I wonder if she saw anything. Missis
the pool.”
started to get him. Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap door
hate it.”


      “Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do
“It is Jane Eyre, sir.”
when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us.

“Oh,” she said, “I know.”
in the dripping mist. The public-houses were just closing, and dim men

On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave
inharmonious man outside the window.
drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit
spiritual ecstasies of some mediæval saint or the morbid confessions of
in a bed of asphodel. She dragged it out again and assured me that I
order wherein I should wish to leave them during a brief absence.

that everything was very, very sad—she was not only singing, she was
should not have done this.”
railing.

      thought the prettiest? and his answering immediately to the last
attention to a disarray in his dress, filled out and handed him a full
Chapter 12

life were lost sight of in the dramatic glare of the original act. Had
      affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self-willed and careless,
moment when Donald exhibited marks of real offence. One day, looking
and neither day nor aid arrived. I had, again and again, held the water

the Atlantic there was a storm, and it was supposed that a lot of us,
      to herself the application for her mother’s. She could not

Rapid motion through space elates one; so does notoriety; so does the
room with a constrained bearing. It was rumoured soon after that much
his fingers. “Old sport, the dance is unimportant.”
days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _tædium vitæ_, that comes
agitation, though I tried hard; I continued to weep aloud. She sat down
“I’ll pull it off,” he said. “Leave it to me, can’t you?”

left leg.
tears, and throwing herself at his feet, entreated him to spare her,
twinkle-bells of sunshine in the room, he smiled like a weather man,
was occasioned by a poignantly felt disappointment. Hannah had told me

towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from
“Well, first I should ask, did you write this?” A rustling of paper
week. Yesterday she met me in a little orchard. The apple-blossoms kept
of Brocklehurst Hall, in this county.
her. Moments of their secret life together burst like stars upon his
affairs.” This note went the round of the committee, and at last, after
big enough to be placed for a moment on the bench beside her when she
I called Gatsby’s house a few minutes later, but the line was busy. I
instead of bending to the decree, I defied it. Divine justice pursued
your eyes on her movements, weigh well her words, scrutinise her


“A thoroughly educated man?”

“He was once my friend,” said Farfrae, “and it’s not for me to take
      in his own book-room, which fronted the road. The room in which
      your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for it, as
we got back, it was after moonrise: a pony, which we knew to be the
pure mockery of consequences. He had expected questions to close in

work, and the rising of their wives and daughters to prepare the

“The bles-sed pre-cious! Did mother get powder on your old yellowy
delicate.”
“It’ll show you how I’ve gotten to feel about—things. Well, she was
Kearney spoke into Kathleen’s ear with subdued emphasis. From the hall
      invited only to a family dinner, she would take care to have two
his look denoted abstraction from me and my business. I was obliged to
Finn brought it in on a tray.
“All right then; limpid, salubrious: no gush of bilge water had turned
      London was added in time, and the plan became perfect as plan
credit, when to be stern and when to let things pass. All the resident
      congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her
      they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his wish
easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge.”
opinion....”
      impatiently, “he would not have danced half so much! For God’s
      beauty is before you.” And, taking her hand, he would have given
loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet completely

Miss Ingram, and Miss Ingram to him; I see her incline her head towards
tripping through the gallery, and soft cheerful laughs, and opening and
while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight.
      patience, when he should have done. He concluded with




and borrowed beams from the lustrous ripple. I had often been unwilling
the town.”
blush at any time: and now he felt warm and excited. Three small
a bronze lamp pendent from the ceiling, at a great clock whose case was
the couch inside. For a while the door of the office was open, and
“I am Dorothy,” answered the girl, “and these are my friends, the Tin
Dorian said nothing, but rose from the table, and passing into the next
“Good-night, then, sir,” said I, departing.

that she had made a clean breast of it to her mother and that her


that I am self-educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild
      “He brought it with him for us to see.”

glittered along the water, and the history of the summer really begins
that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman. He is always

      parsonage-house, and leading naturally to the avowal of his
because it was inconsistent with her past life to blossom gaudily the
has her contract. She will get four pounds eight into her hand or a
spoke of it as a place where young ladies sat in the stocks, wore
to-morrow.”
to wear in the primal days when he had sat among them.

so easily turned from your design? Did you not call this a glorious
it is? I’ve only to say the word and tomorrow I can have the woman and

will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappointment, no
      unwilling to receive it, when she instantly drew back, and said

      that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
leading spirits in the chancel.

balasses.” The favourites of James I wore ear-rings of emeralds set in
      distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to
hadn’t; so come to my house and we will have a solid, staunch tuck-in,


We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasburgh to
      termination.
genuine that a little colour struggled into Aunt Julia’s face as she
      for she really did know where her friend was to be found. Wickham
Dublin and in the suburbs he had made his money many times over. He had
trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The inside
      “Yes, or I will never see her again.”
“Would you rather put it off for a few days?” I asked.
Stannidge thereupon said with a considerate peremptoriness that she and
“None but the pupils and teachers of Lowood, and now the inmates of
      daughters, if he found them as handsome and amiable as they were
to-day: you look flushed and feverish.”
“‘Why, he is a man,’ said the other, and I quite agreed with him. The


      added to her unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined her

up with a snatch; he looked at the edge; then shot a glance at me,
      “It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” he
Aunt Julia shrugged her shoulders and said with meek pride:
features. Strongly-marked horizontal eyebrows must be traced under that
being a land smuggler in a large way of business; and I used to season

exactly; but will you do this—let me put a few lines into the newspaper
would be of no use going away until I have attained that object.”

Chase wasn’t too proud to come in on it.”
      house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity
crept silently about observing the scene—so new to her, fresh from the

“That’s true,” said Mr O’Connor.
of silver, came to her cheeks as she glanced at the crowded
know. By half-past two he was in West Egg, where he asked someone the
stretched out until the top of the head, where it was flat, struck the
length at her end of the divan, completely motionless, and with her
      justice. He expressed no regret for what he had done which
I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned. Was there no
Mr. Chrystie’s wife), and Edgar Beaver, whose hair, they say, turned
frocks and scarlet sashes, with hair elaborately ringletted; and
      “As I did the other day,” said Elizabeth with a conscious smile:
      “I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in
sat the broad-faced genial man who had called on Henchard on a
rankled in his memory; she had once spoken of Gretta as being country
about forty, and this governess not twenty; and you see, when gentlemen
      He was silent.

still and solitary: save for the shadows of clouds crossing it at
finer, after all? There was no reason that the future should be so full
flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior beings who would be
Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other
two, shivered with cold, and again crept to bed.


Afternoon arrived: Mrs. Fairfax assumed her best black satin gown, her
your vigils: don’t you curse me for disturbing your rest?”
I sought all England over, I could scarcely have found a system more
      folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with

Oz gave a low growl at this, but said, gruffly: “If you indeed desire a

      to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a

      you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will

“I have heard something of it.”
Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that
“Then it is an immoral city,” said Little Chandler, with timid
the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden
complicity in the night’s harlequinade, and raising his eyes just
discovered the next morning out of reach of their troubles, either here



white purity of boyhood, and beauty such as old Greek marbles kept for

“You bewilder me. Let us talk of some one else.”
degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No guilt, no mischief, no
      to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
“The bells are ringing on that account,” she said. “My husband is
      comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintances are already there for
support. The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew
responsive, so he went unwillingly home.
and quivered over my head. I can now conjecture readily that this
demanded. “What have you done with me, witch, sorceress? Who is in the
“Very much.”
“I’ll teach you to let the fire out!” he said, rolling up his sleeve in
      her father kept, and what had been her mother’s maiden name?

“I didn’t hear it. I imagined it. A lot of these newly rich people are
feather that drifted his way. No amount of fire or freshness can
instantly sprung out. “My dear Frankenstein,” exclaimed he,
“If you please, sir, I want leave of absence for a week or two.”
from her. He had got from her his beauty, and his passion for the
“Elizabeth-Jane, sir.”
Mrs. Fairfax surprised me by looking out of the window with a sad
“You say truly; but when found, it is right to stir them up—to urge and
severely. I would not so soon relinquish the attempt to reconquer it.
      “I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as
Remembering with difficulty why I had come I went over to one of the



knew that people went there after the theatre to eat oysters and drink

at my face.
“I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to
child are thriving.”

Well did I remember Mrs. Reed’s face, and I eagerly sought the familiar
result. She showed her devotion to Farfrae, however, by mastering her
capitalists whose cousins, if pressed, they would confess themselves
“Where does she live, Hannah?”
Royalty had not been seen in Casterbridge since the days of the third
tragic it would be if you were wasted. For there is such a little time
that. Then she would be married—she, Eveline. People would treat her

Henchard pushed to the door, and for some seconds made no other
      certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided
      “Mr. Darcy!” repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
me how to become young again.”
      Elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to
difficult that the Scarecrow often stumbled over the yellow bricks,
residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefly spent in becoming
held Toto tightly lest he should run after her and frighten her.
some cups and lemons and flowers.
oppressed her by leaning over the bed, and again demanded water. As I
the patient downstairs and all.”
no master but a lexicon.”
      “You are joking, Lizzy. This cannot be!—engaged to Mr. Darcy! No,
Shoes had fallen off in her flight through the air, and were lost
“Everybody, Jane? Why, there are only eighty people who have heard you

      the water, and talking to the man about them, that he advanced

that she replied “No.”

allowed to look at and that even youths may not see till they have been
Mrs Sinico, read: Love between man and man is impossible because there
“Two studies. One of them I call Montauk Point—The Gulls, and the
rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable
      and he scarcely opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young
first married—and loved me more even then, do you see?”
first time and saw the height and splendour of the hall and the great


monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. It has been said that
another log on it. The smell of the singeing clothes and burning
wife passed out through the lower way, and descended under the trees to
over. Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlights illuminated a

admired,” she said to herself; “though perhaps it is by those whose
you. I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself
      no doubt of their happiness together.”
But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet
and the lower part of his face unusually stern and square, as the
“The rumour is,” whispered Jordan, “that that’s Tom’s girl on the
took upon herself to nurse me. From that she got to have a foolish
with my destiny. She stood there, by that beech-trunk—a hag like one of
This news actually took my breath for a moment: Mr. St. John, whom I
“It ripped her open—”
      abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily
For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affection upon her
“but you may feel a—sense of disgrace—shame—in other ways.”
the little pea-chicks, set the dogs at the sheep, stripped the hothouse
      positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all
had hardly ever seen a handsome youth; never in my life spoken to one.


coward like me,” continued the Lion sadly.
      thrown away. When first he entered the corps, she was ready
the fairest and the most full of promise that he had brought to shame.
room affording a view of the yard (which she had occupied with such
young men like to feel that there is a young woman not very far away.
I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly
softened considerably what related to the three days of wandering and


handed her a chair, bade her sit down and turned to his sample-bags
      Her ease and good spirits increased. She longed to see Mrs.
who had remained on the ground lay snug within their carts and tents or
“True!”
him sit down and brought out the decanter and the silver
world to follow, recall, retain her, when she thus left him; but he
      have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them, as a
one’s own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. I
effect. The nettled, clouded aspect which had held possession of his
XXVII.
“Come back tomorrow,” said the old man.
coming.”
be better looked into.”
not good enough for us. In art, as in politics, _les grandpères ont
work of your own hands. Shall I respect man when he condemns me? Let him
as they could in their little way: especially Céline, who even waxed

I did not like this iteration of one idea—this strange recurrence of
tones of a fatalist.... “Yet she knows I am not in my senses when I do
continued to neglect me.
She paused—I did not speak: soon she resumed—

While he was sitting helplessly on the side of the bed in shirt and
protectors. I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally
There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or

could scarcely procure food to support it. They often, I believe,
      pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them;

      and burying his parishioners whenever it were required.
but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of
thatch of the opposite rick—straw after straw—till they reached the
the wolves coming.
      necessarily attached to her situation, that she could, upon the
plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under
eyebrows glimmered an eye devoid of ruth; her skin was dark and opaque,
      opportunity.”
Georgina Burns. Mr Browne could go back farther still, to the old
discovery of a comparatively modern skeleton in their gardens, were
permitted to come to Ingolstadt. “You may easily believe,” said


“I can see by the firelight,” she answered. “Yes—I’d rather.”
Parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up

to-night, a new one opening to-morrow: impossible to slumber in the
unhappy,—very unhappy, for other things.”
not in positive pain; which, thus handled, have much of the same
      cannot. She is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as
I thought I might have retorted the question on him who put it: but I
me very desirous to engage him. A youth passed in solitude, my best years
intervals, which settled on the hard path and on the hoary lea without
      to her. The certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any
“There’s some bad trouble here,” said Tom excitedly.
garnished with a toilet set of pure dull gold. Daisy took the brush
way: they would never feel afraid, and so they would never alter, but
      Mr. Darcy:—but let me not interrupt you, sir. You will not thank
summoned to give information respecting the resources of the house in

“No, sir.”
“You use them for everything, except flight.”
leather strap round their hips or knees, and boots that required a
      invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance,
birds on their gauntleted wrists. How well he remembered it all! Every
      error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair. My
was gone—at least for a moment; but the last I soon endeavoured to
      The adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The
“Did you serve Aungier Street?” he asked Mr O’Connor.
      politely by them; and in their brother’s manners there was
did not even put his silk scarf round his throat. As he strolled home,

“By God! perhaps you’re right, Joe,” said Mr O’Connor. “Anyway, I wish
Lucetta. “Give up business, and go away from here. We have plenty of
      understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever she
corner-drawn smile on his mouth. “But ’tis her money that floats en
of custom—a mere conventional impediment which neither your conscience
brightly, to supply, in some measure, the place of candles, not yet

“I was reading.”
terrible game. They stopped just before the end of it to drink for
“That is for your impudence in answering mama awhile since,” said he,
      objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your

would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called
      quite the reverse. There is a mixture of servility and
“Do you think,” he asked, “if I go to the Emerald City with you, that
      design—to take the good of everybody’s character and make it
      real affection for her. Respect, esteem, and confidence had
elms, and commanding a view across the moor of airy uplands and
carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at
saw this, and concealed his feelings under a cover of stolidity,
      They walked on, without knowing in what direction. There was too
left the kitchen. In passing the door of that sanctum some time after,
During this interval Henchard and Lucetta had had experiences of a
shabby-genteel suit of cloth and rusty silk hat that since his decline

were what is called “out of a situation” from fault or lucklessness,
steel, and studded with coarse turquoises. Perhaps it might be missed
his determination; for she could not urge what she did not know—that
He talked a lot about the past, and I gathered that he wanted to
drudge for a common workwoman of such a character as hers! Why, ye’ll
halfway resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain. The stars


she was coquettish but not heartless; exacting, but not worthlessly
      clear to himself and his friends that she had hardly a good
unhappy and still avoid our society. For some time I was lost in
did not readily keep company with these lighter moods. Like all people
happy, believing it to be happy likewise.

      lead you to the altar ere long.”
think you would like appearing before so gay a party—all strangers; and
horribly hot in the studio. Basil, let us have something iced to drink,
tricks will not answer: you will now stay here an hour longer, and it
decent people; but then you see they are only servants, and one can’t
      could not make a very favourable answer. Jane was by no means
to keep him from stumbling; and to the Tin Woodman they offered a


ground? I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with
appallingly unexpected. Presently she fell asleep.
      daughter. His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable
inappropriate half-hour; “this is much too polite for me.”
downstairs. He will live here till a more suitable house is ready for

alone.
“Yes, sir.”
      write to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any
conversation herself.
woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself,

from Monte Carlo.”

tell me—”
strange moralities, failed to perceive the enormity of Henchard’s
be to him what holiness is to some, and conscience to others, and the
blue gem; his tongue a speaking instrument—nothing more.

he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately

from top to bottom with great pieces of rock.


Henchard started. Probably the picture drawn by the unsuspecting Donald
manner. Be seated somewhere; and until you can speak pleasantly, remain

      are continually increasing.”

your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never

cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the
paper, disclosed presently to our eyes a good-sized seed-cake.
better days.
keeping his eye on the man. He felt ready to leap upon him and fling
But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
outside, until the air is alive with chatter and laughter, and casual

“Will you play?” he asked. I shook my head. He did not insist, which I

patterned with curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round
me: so I departed.


      never been a favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not
him. It was remarked, however, that some of those who had been most
      time with her two elder sisters. In society so superior to what
At that moment Dorothy saw lying on the table the silver shoes that had
taken aback by his rude speech, could find nothing to say. Aunt Kate
were not quite fair, and made a great deal of mischief. Old Mr.
“These were vile discoveries; but except for the treachery of
“Didn’t you know water would be the end of me?” asked the Witch, in a
corn-merchant. “May I walk on with you as far as your street-corner?”
am going through? My God! don’t tell me that you are bad, and corrupt,
devil. He drank, plundered the till, ran headlong into debt. It was no
“This is your doing, Harry,” said the painter bitterly.
They led her up to the table amid laughing and joking and she put her
he was placing a ticket inside the warm palm of her glove. He was
afraid of? He was not a schoolboy or a girl. It was absurd to be



flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had
said sadly. “He has grown quite cold to me.”
paintings of butterflies hovering over unblown roses, of birds picking
The system thus entered on, I pursued during the whole season of
could be heard more clearly. Gabriel held up his hand for them to be
constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the slaves of the

abhorred myself. But when I discovered that he, the author at once of
Art as yet), jumped up and ran and hid herself behind one of the
Lady Lynn was a large and stout personage of about forty, very erect,
promised to comply with my requisition. I am alone and miserable; man


                                 VIII
and then set to work to finish his copy. But his head was not clear and
From that day Donald Farfrae’s name was seldom mentioned in Henchard’s
“My dear Basil,” said Dorian, “what have you told me? Simply that you
stalk-shaped handle, on which lay bunches of purple raisins and peeled
      Longbourn.”

“You utterly misinterpret my words,” I said, at once seizing his hand:
are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!”
bedroom, where he seemed to have been rummaging boxes.

      round the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between


acknowledged his kinswoman, and lived under the same roof with him, I
central arena as a cricket-ground. But the game usually languished for
      “I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the
with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for
“No, no, thank you. It was just a little business matter,” said Father
used discreetly.” And here she closed her harangue: a long one for her,
ship crossing its disk; a group of reeds and water-flags, and a naiad’s



brains at all,” he answered sadly.
is past ten o’clock, and you have no right to surprise me here at such
me.


      in her own private expences, she frequently sent them. It had

become a castaway. I had thought I recognised in you one of the chosen.


Superstition was with me at that moment; but it was not yet her hour
she cried.
Psalms by heart: and when you ask him which he would rather have, a
      assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To
from service on the other, brought them here together to a common
the art that conceals art, the “delicate imposition” of Rochefoucauld;

led down to the fence. Here one could wander unseen. While such
think her a witch, and she knew very well she was only an ordinary
“Did ever anybody see such a picture of passion!”
be alarmed for my safety or if I should come back to you as worn and

disposed to entertain of me. The fact is, I was a trifle beside myself;

ineffable gaudiness spun itself out in his brain while the clock
      incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.
one spring day. She wanted to wear them to show her appreciation of his

      can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and
“Oh, thank you! Thank you ever so much for saving my life.”
a cottage of two rooms attached to it for the mistress’s house. Her
      She could not think of Darcy’s leaving Kent without remembering
      part of town, all our connections are so different, and, as you
when Mr. St. John asked if he would like either o’ ye to be sent for,
myself,” answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a
discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you. I like persons
far that a current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles
The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtle, who had

because I saw that I had nothing to do with their alternation; the ebb
      but I always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and
He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it
“Some calls it Marsh End, and some calls it Moor House.”
all were familiar to me as my own face in a glass—as the speech of my



found no charm powerful enough to solve the enigma.
“You must enclose the advertisement and the money to pay for it under a
absurd sincerity I doated on this little toy, half fancying it alive
you will rule him entirely, I am sure, with your beauty and wealth and

      of that gay bathing-place covered with officers. She saw herself
the ceiling, and a little red gallery high up against the wall filled

been the headquarters of his business. She knew that he ruled there no
horses to get it here.”

brightness of the sun. The window panes were of green glass; even the

“No, but I am their friend, although I live in the land of the North.

luxury of star-shine; the wicker of the settee squeaked fashionably as
Elizabeth, wishing to shield the man she believed to be her father from
“Not as long as you love him, I suppose,” was the sullen answer.
      “Her daughter, Miss de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune,

until this very evening, when the new lady had arrived, the house had
stood before him, leaning my back against the rock. “I scorn the
upas-tree: that demon’s vicinage is poisoned, and always was. But I’ll
but Henchard had doggedly retained the fretted and weather-beaten
He is a suggestion, as I have said, of a new manner. I find him in the
cold. The humanities and amenities of life had no attraction for
old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly
sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew.”
out of this yard for good.”
and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book
that peace of God which passeth all understanding: he had no more found


how best to mortify in them the worldly sentiment of pride; and, only

the candles lighted, for when Farfrae was away she preferred waiting
parterre she wished to sell: and Eliza would have sold the hair off her
looked as if he was asleep, he looked that peaceful and resigned. No
there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how
boat in which I had just landed.
      “In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure,” said
of fear for herself and Toto. Once the Witch struck Toto a blow with
“Did you do it, or didn’t you? Where was it?”
together in the same house, and her feeling warm, we got naturally
scarcely made a perceptible addition to its contents.
While his eyes were bent on the water beneath there slowly became
      Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to
for me:
strength, and break the entanglement like tow!”
quickly with a glass of lemonade for a young lady and asked him was it

“’Tis too rough a joke, and apt to wake riots in towns. We know that
      settled thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup
feature. “What then? Why—nothing. Read.”


across the bed-rail, hid her face. Gabriel stood stock-still for a
moustache and rather innocent-looking grey eyes. His father, who had
Well, you better look sharp and get a copy of our correspondence in the
      given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her
“Why?”
her.”
Healy and the baritone. They were the _Freeman_ man and Mr O’Madden
Nothing was said of the master’s marriage, and I saw no preparation
eye in this antiquated borough, the borough of Casterbridge—at that
Dorian looked at him and smiled. “What a way for a fashionable painter
parlour.”
there is no disgrace upon her. She can live, like Perdita, in her
Perhaps the only inhabitants of the town to whom this looming choice of
“I’m going ... to cook it, pa,” said the little boy.
The room in which debtor and creditors had assembled was a front one,
No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself. My
on the man. “What do you put in your gab for?”

walls were a soft fawn colour with a blush of pink in it; the wardrobe,
      mother and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included
are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned. Listen

because he thought I should make a suitable missionary’s wife, which

the blue lake and rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early

fields; advancing on to the lawn, I looked up and surveyed the front of


      thought, and act as they wished. And their mother had the
coffee, and half-a-slice of brown bread. I devoured my bread and drank
himself he had the habit of leaving his flattery open to the
“Get some chairs, why don’t you, so somebody can sit down.”
even the worst in the school: she sees my errors, and tells me of them
As soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen and drew it back. No;
“And have you a pale blue dress on?”



lose no time. Good-bye, Harry. Good-bye, Dorian. Come and see me soon.
It was with rather more reluctance that Miss Templeman said, “Jersey.

      After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm
for comforting beverages to such an extent that they had quite
heroic-looking young gentleman, I should not have dared to stand thus

“Well, is he?”
tired of London, come down to Treadley and expound to me your
      insensibility.”
evening as Hallward was shown into a little private room at the Bristol
“Then came the war, old sport. It was a great relief, and I tried very
the whole thing up. I would, if my articles hadn’t been signed.”
be what she appeared, a placid-tempered, kind-natured woman, of
“With master—Mr. Rochester—he is just arrived.”
then.
“Approach the table,” said he; and I wheeled it to his couch. Adèle and
merely grown used to it, grown to accept West Egg as a world complete

The smile passed away from Gabriel’s face. A dull anger began to gather
The Lion hesitated no longer, but drank till the dish was empty.
most sweethearts. Mahony mentioned lightly that he had three totties.
ebullition of the sensations. I had long felt with pleasure that many
“Let’s have some gas!” cried Tom roughly. “What do you think we

few minutes he became absorbed. It was the strangest book that he had
it not an odd tale?”
useful information, of course; useless information.”
good night of it. The clerk in Terry Kelly’s said _A crown!_ but the
He accordingly lapsed into moodiness, and at every allusion to the
“What can we do, then?” she asked.
      You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the
      could not return it.
the biting undertones you used to-day, if I walk through the yard at

“Well, I hope, Miss Morkan,” said Mr Browne, “that I’m brown enough for
possibly drunk himself into his tomb. But he might, on the other hand,


      quite mistake the matter.”
As Donald stated, Lucetta had retired early to her room because of
kidnapping me; for I believed in kidnappers, their exploits having


straw arm-chair and watched the servant Mary remove the breakfast

Nobody was present, for, as he had been aware, the labourers and
evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences. Yet from whom has
empty and the kitchen fire nearly out. He bawled upstairs:

“Take good care of these friends of mine,” said the Lion, “and I will
wishes.
earlier associated; she had no relatives left; and with native
XII.

what made them; but Toto knew, and he walked close to Dorothy’s side,
“Well—nothing worth talking of,” he responded sadly.
sorts of old-fashioned flowers, stocks, sweet-williams, primroses,
insult to poor Adolphe, who invented the _menu_ specially for you,” and
hard, keen, and unflinching as fair—rather more so. By such a desperate
become strained. Mr Bell, the first item, stood ready with his music
have been occupied in examining my past conduct; nor do I find it blamable.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
 Chapter IV. The Road Through the Forest
God’s tribunal. I know my Maker sanctions what I do. For the world’s
habit, with her Amazon’s cap of black velvet placed gracefully above
overflowed after a rapid thaw some days since. From my seat I could
by-the-bye, what you express with that organ; I am quick at
      not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but she was not
changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that
watch the blossom or the expanding leaves—sights which before always
a brand snatched from the burning. Earnestness is ever deeply solemn:
pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly upon the

of silk and satin, and began making a new bonnet for Georgiana’s doll.
      “What is it you mean?”

useful mental points.—Then I must leave you, sir, to go to him?”
“Read the New Testament, and observe what Christ says, and how He acts;

      Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had
a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain.
      study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a
prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured
and shouted, but, before he could reach her, she was caught by the
      She replied in the affirmative.
than anywhere else this autumn—stretching its rays, as the hours grew
“The same to you,” said Gabriel cordially.
shadows crawl into the corners of the room and crouch there. Outside,
But the privations, or rather the hardships, of Lowood lessened. Spring
coronation of the Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood.
“And to bear with my infirmities, Jane: to overlook my deficiencies.”

with that pride of individualism that is half the fascination of sin,
“O no, sir,” she answered. “I’m done schooling this year and more.”

shall not live—swear that he shall not triumph over my accumulated
“Yes, sir,” answered the gamekeeper.
than could Elizabeth. Lucetta had persisted in dragging her into the
One day he had had company to dinner, and had sent for my portfolio; in
As the old man said nothing further, the boy took the bottle and said:
“No,” answered the Scarecrow; “it’s a lighted match.”
trees and sunshine to cheer them, and had they not felt so sorry for
“Twenty years ago or thereabout I was selling of furmity in a tent at
      Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so—but still they

numbness of death—it might have pelted on; I should not have felt it;
no mind to do.”
“Did any one call this evening?”
dissipated, restless man; and I believe I have found the instrument for
      Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.
conversation of Lucetta with the other ladies reached his ears; and he
taciturnity, when all exterior circumstances were subdued to the touch
mixture of corn in the grain, flour, milk, raisins, currants, and what

      likewise began on the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her
sliding sound and an exclamation of “What the deuce is to do now?” and
wretchedness. My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would
“You are a strange child, Miss Jane,” she said, as she looked down at
glad to hear it—if, indeed, he should be still living—when Mr. Mason
“I am sorry if I have hurt yours, sir,” replied Donald, standing still,
“You have as good as informed me, sir, that you are going shortly to be

once and was miserable at not finding you. I can’t tell you how

Georgiana, when not unburdening her heart to me, spent most of her time



thunderloft.’ That will be your married look, sir, I suppose?”
stamped her patent of nobility on this brow, Jane; and I will clasp the
her hand like a child. A kinder note than he had intended went into his
attracted even to the most repulsive among them, as to creatures of an

Henchard. His accounts were like a bramblewood when Mr. Farfrae came.
enter his presence alone, and he will admit but one each day.
the ravine, swelled with past spring rains, poured along plentiful and
little save the noise of laughter and dispute on the front steps, a few
There was no possibility of taking a walk that day. We had been

for furmity, as the woman had said, was nourishing, and as proper a
      not be near so much like a ball.”
allow, are not joined together by God, neither is their matrimony
there he went to his stepdaughter’s lodging, and was told that
turquoise-stones, and a skull-cap _parsemé_ with pearls. Henry II. wore

“The coffin,” said Mary Jane, “is to remind them of their last end.”

refreshed; how sparklingly blue was the sky. I sought a seat for him in
    Work                                           8:30-4:30 p.m.
But Joe said he would not lose his temper on account of the night it
said.
rustics wake up into sharp-witted girls enough. Many showed themselves
Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica—she looked so
going to play for you Mr. Vladmir Tostoff’s latest work, which
The chamber looked such a bright little place to me as the sun shone in
wrestle. At last he mastered her arms; Grace Poole gave him a cord, and

generated and screened, justified, in this instance, the term. No charm

“’Tis a great liberty,” said Elizabeth.
egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and squeezed between two huge
innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike
and _fleurs-de-lis_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen;
fragrant in the cold air, was quite close to his; and suddenly he

      least be no want of subject. We may compare our different
the court.


every hope of consolation, to live? Oh, no! The only joy that he can
be convicted of crime? I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do
narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. I

lower tone, but still loud enough for me to hear, “I noticed her; I am
Astoria—only half, for as we twisted among the pillars of the elevated
they stretch out east, west, north, and south—white, broad, lonely;
about her deceased master and mistress, and “the childer,” as she
      Sir William only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” he


strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come
He shook his head with farcical gravity.
schiedam—maybe a dozen jars will be sufficient?—as many of the folk

“You can’t trust _their_ senses!” murmured Henchard’s man.

“It would be fruitless to attempt to explain; but there is a point on

no credit to myself for trying to escape.”
In a lonely hamlet a few miles from the town—so lonely that what are
      could see any beauty in her. Her face is too thin; her complexion


GRACE
      behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the

getting back to the proper hour for several days.
the incident was dissipated by the humming of a song, which sounded as

angry south-westerly tempests—when, if the sun shone, the air was like
high country lying between there and Mellstock, Henchard’s spasmodic
to know where the picture was being taken to. There was something sly
the evening was wet, but the days were still long; I visited a shop or
superciliousness. Looking towards the village, he continued, “There is

he did not touch me. “Who is this? Who is this?” he demanded, trying,

that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids.
      “That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all
because of this that I first met Tom Buchanan’s mistress.
old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude. The
      favour; his judgement could not err. And he had spoken in such

knew what had happened; and she was best in a position to break the
it when he speaks to you; you cannot be always sure whether he is in
shade: but he never turned his eyes.
bringing up its children, and burying its dead, without caring a tittle
“You are very hungry,” he said.
“Mr Alleyne has been calling for you,” said the chief clerk severely.
faded wearily out of things.
“Well, well, dearie; you will know soon about that. And Mr. Henchard

with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his
annuity is what I should like you to have—so as to be independent of
the wax with the candle, and went off with the parcel as requested.
      what her ladyship’s indignation would have been. “What would she
     Which nobody can deny.
Christian Brothers and I done what I could for him, and there he goes
will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain
building, and glide through the dazzled ranks of the village children.
Constantines.
just striking eight.
dimly perceived that she was already obliterating hope from the new
eloquence, the best qualifications of soldier, statesman, and orator,

commission agent in Fleet Street, had the reputation of being a hard
Mrs Mooney’s young men paid fifteen shillings a week for board and
“A useful fellow! And the sooner you help somebody else in that way the


difficult to eradicate from the heart whose soil has never been
“I scarcely expected to hear that expression from you,” he said: “I
have the goodness to look at the fire in the parlour?”
      moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with
phase of American life brought back to the Eastern seaboard the savage
stacked miles away. Thus he lost heavily.
floor, crushed it into silver splinters beneath his heel. It was his
bulky figure of Sir George Lynn, whom Mr. Rochester had likewise
light. Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred

Yes; I feel now that I was right when I adhered to principle and law,

“Till I can’t help it.”
“O, there’s a ... fib!”
was too much for him. And then his life was, you might say, crossed.”

never told me definitely that his parents were dead. But there was
“I am glad you are no relation of mine: I will never call you aunt
and told how his destiny had risen up before him, and dared him to be
dance.”


recognised the prelude. It was that of an old song of Aunt

there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men
walk along the river in the snow. Poor Aunt Julia! She, too, would soon
precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that
When, almost immediately, the telephone rang inside and the butler
to my seat, that lady was just delivering an order of which I did not
Chapter XVI
her; sometimes ordering her from the room, and always treating her with
nests like a pair of doves, as you are. Mesdames” (to the dowagers),



Pigeon House. We were reassured: and I brought the first stage of the
“Mason got the start of you all this morning; he was gone before

sad purlieu to which he had wandered on the night of his discovery that
and new milk, with which I was wont to amuse my inward cravings: I
The next April Daisy had her little girl, and they went to France for
her world. What was it up there in the song that seemed to be calling

“Well,” said Ignatius Gallaher, “it’s a relaxation to come over here,

me; “a little roving, solitary thing: and you are going to school, I

was in her opinion, precisely of such a kind as to inspire that

the shutters for the night; some of them of a lower class. Distinct
disturbed. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood up in a corner and
cannot tell—though I feel so much beneath him, I don’t feel humble. I

forward without hesitation, it being obvious that he had no suspicion
chastened the pleasure of those who looked on her and listened to her,
they? They could not be the daughters of the elderly person at the
again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me feel
      “It has been a very agreeable day,” said Miss Bennet to
Helen Burns; nor ever ceased to cherish for her a sentiment of
country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which
“I what?”
“Your answer requires a commentary,” he said; “it is not clear.”
eating his soul away. From time to time he seemed to see the eyes of
indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales
protests of Mr. Hubbard, who had the true tradesman’s spirited dislike
me. Since you wish to be of use, there’s your way.”
that corn was worse than we have known it for years. However, I have
shook the kitchen floor, and peering towards the bleared windows from
repentant mother. Poor girl! She wept when she quitted our house; she
      rooms, and the price of the furniture, in vain. Mr. Gardiner,
has been to me. The merely visible presence of this lad—for he seems to
helped? Are you anything akin to me, do you think, Jane?”
coming. Something was up. And yet I couldn’t believe that they would
      continued silent till they reached the house. Their father then
time he had assisted at the meetings of an Irish Socialist Party where
      enquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she had
circumstance: but still more was I amazed to perceive the air quite
boldly.
in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the

depends on him. Mind, Harry, I trust you.” He spoke very slowly, and
_He_.—“Is it a secret why?”

think of the water-jug!” “I wonder he waked nobody!” “It is to be hoped
unpleasant feature of her visit.
“I don’t want you to come to me all of a sudden,” said Henchard in
walked towards Farfrae’s door he recalled the unheeded doings in the
      “I hope not.”
“That’s the way it begins,” said the old man.
absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting. There was neither
strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly?”
my father! No one, who saw us together, would suppose it for an
discussion from the doorstep with cross-directions and contradictions
“I am sorry you have decided on this,” she said with difficult
no surprise, fear, annoyance, or displeasure at my moroseness; you
wouldn’t be let out and his people in Oughterard were written to. He
      scarcely anything. He was not seated by her; perhaps that was the
swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin. When Lord Henry came in
As he shook hands and turned away his tragic nose was trembling. I
      necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried. Her father
“How did he happen to do that?” I asked after a minute.
upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between,
to distract him.
“Polly! Polly!”
her read and construe a page of Virgil; and Helen obeyed, my organ of
can’t—When I try to—”
us,” murmured the lad gravely. “They create love in our natures. They
one bring a long piece of string.”

tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured
sir: there is plenty of room on this side.”

more, holding out her left to Elizabeth-Jane.
understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Any one you love
her hand. But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because of
people wish to please, and the conviction that they have not an
“Is it really you, miss, come at this late hour to this lonely place?”
became part of a circle of which Casterbridge formed the centre. In
blanket, as though she suffered from a chill in the hot night, lay on
windows, glowing now with reflected gold and wide open to the warm

      for. But the morrow passed off much better than she expected; for
      Longbourn. But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps
      for? What am I to do?”

I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the
apparently just as usual, extract from every deed and every phrase the
“You don’t understand her, Harry. She regarded me merely as a person in
going on in you at the same time.”
“It was all his own courage, and a body may say, his kindness, in a
He walked along quickly through the November twilight, his stout hazel
waters a shore, sweet as the hills of Beulah; and now and then a
me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her.”
when their mother was alive, they had all gone for a picnic to the Hill
Says I to myself, ‘He knows who I am, and recommends himself by this
      horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you know, when once they get
surface do so at their peril. Those who read the symbol do so at their
found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy’s basket with them, so
first sweetie she ever had.”
will, while in town, speak to a married missionary, whose wife needs a
and so she has never really died. To you at least she was always a
“Money, I suppose,” said Lord Fermor, making a wry face. “Well, sit
of his melancholy for some time to come.”


way. Usually her voice came over the wire as something fresh and cool,
no breeze whispered. Nature seemed to me benign and good; I thought she
divine beyond all living things. When she acts, you will forget
“Don’t, my chiel,” whispered a buxom staylace dealer in voluminous
“That is a first-rate idea,” said the Lion. “One would almost suspect
He looked at Mr Cunningham and Mr Power at the same time with an air of
      it this useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is
“Would she take my gloves?”
his red and black visage kindled with satisfaction—“I’ve a splendid
The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued
A sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great
is serious nowadays. At least nothing should be.”
upstairs. “Explanation will do for another time,” thought I. Still,
what might have happened!”
      you—but are you certain? forgive the question—are you quite

possible to a nature so sudden and headstrong as his) has delivered him
quaintness of her phrase, put his hands on her hair and began smoothing
caused by the prospective event, that all the gossips’ tongues were set
      “I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley,
      enquiring. His countenance, voice, and manner had established him

      Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that
from their door one, however monstrous, who solicited their compassion
She surveyed my whole person: in her eyes I read that they had there
on his countenance.
“Don’t be alarmed,” continued the strange being; “she’s a safe hand is
      but absence of mind.
My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by
sense of great smugness and comfort inside, and rendering at the same
      call on him in her return through London, and there relate her
      who, by bringing her into Derbyshire, had been the means of

“Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific
      supper; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any of
with any one. She wished me to look after the house, to see callers,
said to be sweet on her or on her money. She came to the office often
natural talent. On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit. His
“In the shape of Miss Ingram; a noble and beautiful woman,—your bride.”
We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little villages in France.
    Up where the moors spread and grey rocks are piled?
      their share of Mr. Wickham’s attentions. There could be no
A puerile tear dimmed my eye while I looked—a tear of disappointment
frightened.
“Go to your room, and put on your bonnet,” he replied. “I mean you to
and imagery; for there was something fetichistic in this man’s beliefs.
banter; and now when the matter had been nearly forgotten it was again
Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke? All of
Christopher; “I’m as clammy as a cockle-snail.”
of gesture, very unusual indeed at her age, and which proved she had
      “But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg
entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy
      “To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite
curves, dead men’s traits, which the mobility of daytime animation
love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me

Rochester and Mr. Rowland combined to bring Mr. Edward into what he
people who remain at home: they must be sought abroad.
by Mary Wollstonecraft (Godwin) Shelley


“O yes,” said Mr Cunningham.

of spoons and china, the click of a heel on the pavement under the
      letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what Lydia had
undeceiving them. I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but
I need them most to support my spirits. I love you very tenderly. 
and down her hips.
circumstances made him somewhat more reckless than usual, and without
would grow worse and worse. When we are struck at without a reason, we
      On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of
appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the
prospect of her loss had caused him to speak mad lies like a child, in
He unrolled the bottle of whisky from the towel and put it on the
      his heart. I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F., but no one
With little ripples that were hardly the shadows of waves, the laden
order; only the bed was stripped of its hangings. Leah stood up in the


“That is no answer; or rather it is a very irritating, because a very

occupation, I fell to breathing on the frost-flowers with which the
equally attractive adult acquaintance.
longer envied Farfrae his bargain. He had married money, but nothing

housewives of the district. He bore himself with a certain grace,
run up, chilled and exalted, from the black beach, until the lights
“Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed
something worse. Absolute indifference had taken the place of



“Ay!”

again that most limited of all specialists, the “well-rounded man.”
[Illustration]

“JANE EYRE.”
warmth and rest only that I need.’
      many professions of pleasure; and Elizabeth had never seen them
same mixed mechanism. The masonry of the top was clamped with iron at
here.”
think it best for us that I go on now. I need not stay long; I shall
cranes and engines and often being shouted at for our immobility by the
one summer evening on this very spot—how desolate, and hopeless, and
they drew near, the cow suddenly gave a kick and kicked over the stool,
      only say something indistinctly of his concern, and observe her
Dorian looked at Campbell. “How long will your experiment take, Alan?”
and over again, “What shall I do?—what shall I do?”
muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing
starvation, because to have told him all would have been to inflict
      Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant
eyesore, but it was a small eyesore, and it had been overlooked, so I

      “I am sure there is not on _his_. I will answer for it, he never
beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell

“I wish you would do what we have talked of,” mournfully remarked
to find his friends waiting for him, and told them of his terrible
Still Henchard refused. “You don’t know what you ask,” he said.
no communication by letter or message with the outer world:
perfect cannonade of laughter from Henchard, arising from something


was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs
son-in-law in public—paid him, sir, to do it, paid him—and that the

and pensively changing the angle of position of his hat.

standing, by marrying either a purse or a coronet.”
spoke of him bitterly as an Irish Jew and an illiterate and saw divine

“Honest to God!” said Corley. “Didn’t she tell me herself?”

“Any trade doing here?” he asked phlegmatically, designating the
      opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first.”
joyous moment the centre of a group, and then, excited with triumph,
platform and the few people in the hall grew fewer and fewer, she began

half an hour if a little button was pressed two hundred times by a
      attentions to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Miss Darcy, on her
again. She waited restlessly for the close of the day, telling
was to Casterbridge what the ruined Coliseum is to modern Rome, and was
and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly
excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my
the vigil. So I walked away and left him standing there in the

“Why, I’ve had one too, so we are both under the same cold shade.” He
deal ruin at the first or second stroke, left him afterwards well-nigh
had also suggested apple sauce for the goose but Aunt Kate had said
personality in its noise, the vehicle having been his own till bought

held any kind of merry-making, meeting, or sheep-fair that required
suspicion in their glances: there was more of curiosity. I speak


bear as she best might.
me a decoration—even Montenegro, little Montenegro down on the

well, never. No, I never heard your voice so good as it is tonight.



      Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at

with gold thread, the border of a square crimson cloth, almost large
“Which I can and will realise. I shall begin to-day. This morning I
up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
“Yes,” said Mr Cunningham.
odour of dusty cretonne. She was tired.
embarrassment. “Treat me as an acquaintance, and I’ll treat you as one.
“Now you will, I am sure, perceive that the one condition which will
and the surgeon, Carter (who dressed Mason’s wounds that night he was
now Farfrae’s, she could see Donald and Lucetta speeding in and out of
turn away from the window and look back into the room. But Wilson


      against herself for being so silly!
Lucetta regarded him with a critical interest. He was quite a new type
“I’ll stay with you, _dear_ Helen: no one shall take me away.”
what no man besides will ever be.—But where am I wandering, and what am
clear, he returned to the present. “And where is your mother staying?”
at the point of maturity. There were so many different moods and
“Keep your hands off the lever,” snapped the elevator boy.
      not imagine that he is always here so often. It is on your
flowers which smelt so sweetly were not discernible; and they passed
The position of the queer old door and the odd presence of the leering
folded his arms, and stood quiet and mute in the rain, now falling fast
nectarous flood—the young germs swamped—delicious poison cankering
his stepdaughter. As a consequence, instead of following a straight
influence. No other activity was like it. To project one’s soul into

man’s presence we may briefly explain how he came there.
furious voice called out in a piercing North of Ireland accent:
begged permission to sit down a moment, as I was tired. Disappointed in
down: I had some questions to ask him. But when he complied, I scarcely
“I’ve lived here thirty year. I nursed them all three.”
“Won’t they hurt me?” asked the girl anxiously.
were all afraid of her.
his aunts were only two ignorant old women?
my guests, and while you live in the Palace my people will wait upon

the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of
Hall the aspect of a home of the past: a shrine of memory. I liked the
find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow

      that if such an idea had been suggested, his behaviour during the
before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity,
time when I was master there.”

enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave
smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was
essay of the horrors of homeless destitution.”
of compliment, the swarthy face of the driver had disclosed a line of
      refusal in such a way as to convince you of its being one.”
whether I quit for ever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless
and Daisy stared, with that peculiarly unreal feeling that accompanies
the eastern shore of the lake, at the distance of rather more than a
seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of


      after the health of her family. She answered with equal
By seven o’clock the orchestra has arrived, no thin five-piece affair,
hopes?”
not been quite so sure about the continuance of a fair season. But it
“Which road leads to the Wicked Witch of the West?” asked Dorothy.
needle-factory, and at the foundry.”
sent home. Then you can do what you like with yourself.” And he walked

      wanted to talk, but there seemed to be an embargo on every


sit.”
“It is not much use inquiring here for anybody, I should think,” the
had brought upon his soul with a pity that was all the more poignant
When dusk actually closed, and when Adèle left me to go and play in the
became quite friendly with the little girl.

      respectability, and Charlotte’s steady, prudent character.
“My aunt, consequently?”
“Will you walk this way, ma’am?” said the girl; and I followed her
Street. I am nearly always at home at five o’clock. Write to me when
      were not immediately on the spot.
everyone assumed an innocent face. Father Butler turned over the pages,
      Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. Jane
tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by
sign of unusual excitement, Mrs Sinico caught up his hand passionately
      visit was returned in due form. Miss Bennet’s pleasing
Among the other papers had been placed the contents of his wife’s

heart’s blood of a patriot! That’s a fellow now that’d sell his country

“From England and from Thornfield: and—”
her face? Her face was like her mother’s; a youthful unfurrowed

Elizabeth-Jane had not.
      expect him to-morrow, with a large party of friends.” How
few kisses and some broken pathetic words.”
with hesitation, “You are very kind, but there must be some mistake. I
      “I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley, in a half
sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep
much: I have only a father; and he is lately married, and will not miss
then ’a looked in again. I’m not a penny the better for him.”
      in spite of her being his patroness, she is an arrogant,
martyr about her. Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of
      pretensions of a young woman without family, connections, or
was not the child of Michael Henchard at all—legally, nobody’s child;
having, as he explained once to Lady Agatha, said everything that he
bright as such summers well can be. Lest she should pine for deeper
“Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of
“Five shillings,” said someone, at which there was a laugh.


flower-beds, then as fruit-garden, where the long-tied espaliers, as
thing was not to realize the situation. The friend who had painted the
they were erected Casterbridge life had resumed its ordinary shape.

“I asked this question, and nobody answered to ’t. Will any Jack Rag or
      too little to care for his approbation.
there, sir, and you so comfortable here?”
      here, _I_ must have been in error. Your superior knowledge of
“When did he lose his wife?” asked Elizabeth.
“I swear I will not!” he said fervidly.
“I was not dreaming,” I said, with some warmth, for her brazen coolness

“I entreat you, Alan.”
dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces, and still water which
harbourage of Lowood: that bourne so far away and unexplored. The same
into the hiring. Among the rest, at the corner of the pavement, stood
suppose.” And as the girl withdrew she added, smiling, “Fortunately, I
Because, when she failed, I saw how she might have succeeded. Arrows
“To see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him.”
and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West. Finding they were

“Has it?” When he realized what I was talking about, that there were

“Oh, sir!—never rain jewels! I don’t like to hear them spoken of.
“Not you. You told Mr. Brocklehurst I had a bad character, a deceitful

      delighted them all. Elizabeth had not before believed him quite
proceeding quite satisfactorily without his presence. The Corporation,
Elizabeth. I remained silent.

his composition. It had given her servants, house, and fine clothing—a
      only by herself, soon went away. But before she had been three
for with Henchard music was of regal power. The merest trumpet or organ
I had my own reasons for being dismayed at this apparition; too well I
thought. After leaving the Three Mariners he had sauntered up and down
pipe from her lips, and while gazing steadily at the fire, said very

don’t quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement.

“Why?”
      propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of
departure could be but momentary; he would learn all by inquiries in

opposite, a book or newspaper in his hand. I examined first, the
go.”


words on it, asked, “Is your name Dorothy, my dear?”


snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been
acuteness so soon as, the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate, I had
Kansas, and live with Aunt Em and Uncle Henry.”
when I forgot to eat: and then a ceaseless sorrow, and, at times, a
changed direction) without saying a word to any one on what had

      as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond
He laid his hand on my head as he uttered the last words. He had spoken
seemed to know what he was doing.
now, for instance. Jane, a little water.”
Emerald City.

one whose growth is arrested. If you want to mar a nature, you have
of her accomplishments. Descending from her chair, she came and placed
      desirable. My situation in life, my connections with the family
      This was one point, with regard to Lydia, at least, which was now
      after a moment’s pause, added:

      his friend.
liking for me. Heaven knows why, for I wasn’t worth it. But being
      The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss

one of them the King himself. They had made a chair of their hands and
man, a servant of her father who understood French. She thanked him in
way that was hidden from me before. ‘A dream of form in days of
      your elder sister, than it is honourable to the sense and
in bar-rooms, and used bad language. He was to be a nice sheep-farmer,
something?”
“They are coming! they are coming!” cried Hannah, throwing open the
      them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as _they_ were

by the window, and you’ll find all my coffin clothes, a piece of
The silent landlord came and leant over the settle while the young man
pardon!”_ in a London accent. He watched her leave the room in the hope
faces: a large old pointer dog rested its massive head on the knee of
from head to foot, thrilled with ungovernable excitement, I continued—
and nerves, that assimilates me mentally to him. Did I say, a few days
      replied her uncle. “Your great men often are; and therefore I
had been detained by important customers, whom, even in the exceptional

barking loudly; but Dorothy sat quite still on the floor and waited to
solitude, I have for the first time found what I can truly love—I have
sleep. I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves

felt, at the moment, powerless as stubble exposed to the draught and
quickly: it was an object of terror.
“Well ... all right.”
“But ye are a bit down—surely ye are down? Why, there’s nothing to be
good woman, but you are bad, hard-hearted. _You_ are deceitful!”
the curtain aside, a hideous laugh broke from the painted lips of the
dun brick, vitrified here and there and its heavy sash-bars—but
“You will not come? You will not be my comforter, my rescuer? My deep
tongue lie upon his lower lip—a habit which had made me feel uneasy in
and their admirers, were all busied in the game. It required some
carried him upstairs held a dinged silk hat in his hand. The manager
and scorned and crushed the insane promptings of a frenzied moment. God
the right, as he paced along.
is what I understand best though I now do more in corn than in the
dragged the purple hanging from the portrait. A cry of pain and

“Oz keeps a great pot of courage in his Throne Room,” said the man,
sister—the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and
      “Are you pleased with Kent?”
masse_, it was not necessary for me to look up in order to ascertain

      “My dear Brother,

substitute for a meal, they next bent their steps instinctively to
He leaned on his axe and thought a moment. Then he said, “The Winkies
feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by
intellect. There may, too, have been enough recklessness and resentment
he seemed to enclose in their embrace the invisible being.

that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness
the Lion,” he said to the Woodman, “and the bees cannot sting them.”


“Down, Pilot!” I again said. He checked the water on its way to his

man as desirable for comradeship as he was useful for consultations.
      said nothing.
John cleaning the knives, and I said—
“My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did
means to justify my poor guiltless Justine. Alas! who is safe, if she
repentance and disgust in secret; I repressed the deep antipathy I
departed from land.
“I would sooner come with you; yes, I feel I must come with you. Do let


that flew past his head. So he put out his tongue and panted and looked
Kathleen played a selection of Irish airs which was generously
      “And I certainly _never_ shall give it. I am not to be
observable in the street. He looked about the room at the novel
      he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such
are, you should transfix me at once.”
that!” he exclaimed. “Well, I must walk about till I find her.... Seize
“I can’t do it—I can’t get mixed up in it,” he said.
promised! I could have told him as much myself, but he would not have
      The colour now rushed into Elizabeth’s cheeks in the


      Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred



and I wrought the shades blacker, that the lights might flash more
to him to see Elizabeth if he were minded to woo her. At first he had
the table-drawer of my little kitchen, she discovered first two French
My pulse stopped: my heart stood still; my stretched arm was paralysed.
introduced: the ruddy gloaming, the licensed uproar, the confusion of
than enrage a listener. A card of mine lay on the table; this being
grew to love her with all my heart. She, on her part, promised to marry
      who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement.
his nose shot off in the war, and Mr. Albrucksburger and Miss Haag,
traversed, we came upon the hum of many voices, and presently entered a

“Well, have you chosen?” she asked flinging down the last card.
conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the
      finest woods in the country.”

marked it with red pencil. Victor might have read it. The man knew more
      Netherfield,” said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, “and all the
So the Lion aroused himself and bounded forward as fast as he could go.
      complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her
then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual
remote.

King George, and then only by candlelight for a few minutes, when that

and gave me pretty dresses and toys: but you see he has not kept his

to have to sing to empty benches.”
mind were alike strained by dread: such dread as children only can
everything. At the end he felt faint and sick, and having lit some
You and he were inseparable. What about Adrian Singleton and his
black moustache. He was the son of a hall porter in an office in the
Finger. I’m much mistaken if you don’t find a clue to the perpetrators
Egyptian bees that wrought in silver, and taking up the volume, flung


but a reflection. You had made me understand what love really is. My

crinkled lids over black, glasslike eyes and began to sway backwards
“I was asleep,” cried Mr. Klipspringer, in a spasm of embarrassment.
Dorian glanced at him hurriedly and frowned.
and I _was_ disposed to bask in her youthful lightness of heart. I just


But he was disturbed. And the sense of occult rivalry in suitorship was

efforts. He gazed at them, turned suddenly about, and came down to the
he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the

restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details
It was June, and the weather was very unfavourable. Casterbridge, being

      the point of accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran
world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind.
      three days before he could get from her what he wanted. She would


“But the string is in a knot—help me.”
well; but how about the bad bread?”
      your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?”
“Yes, sir, to comfort you, as well as I could.”
you agree to let me hector a little?”

      and Meryton was the headquarters.

      will never do.”
“I entered. ‘Pardon this intrusion,’ said I; ‘I am
“I hope we are friends,” was the unmoved reply; while he still watched
house some afternoon and then let him come over.”
now.”
“No, no—it is not so serious as ye fancy,” declared Farfrae soothingly;
      engagement?”
He looked coldly into the eyes of the photograph and they answered
front of High-Place Hall.
more reserved. He was courteous—too courteous—and Farfrae was quite
worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the
Nero, Caligula, &c. Also I had drawn parallels in silence, which I
      of the family.”
deeper than I wished.
      sure,” said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend
“Why should I give you courage?” demanded Oz.
“No!” said Henchard to himself behind the tree. “Or if he do, he’ll be

“Yes, that’s it,” said Mr Cunningham, “Jack and I and M’Coy here—we’re


P. Dunne, railway porter, stated that as the train was about to start
This absorbing information about my neighbour was interrupted by Mrs.
who knew nothing about my character. And as to the woman who would not
My father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in my disposition
      “Yes, almost every day.”

painted green, and when they came to a small house, in which a farmer
mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I
      children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and,
“Romanticists! You have all the methods of science.”
mode of the day, was of purple cloth, relieved by a sort of Spanish
many voices gave one a welcome sense of liberty.
by the murderer on its bridal bier. Could I behold this and live? Alas!

to them! Do you think Mr. Rochester will send for us by-and-bye, after

they will forgive us everything, even our intellects. You will never
yelling out the names of the evening editions. The man passed through

Yet this mildewed leaf in the sturdy and flourishing Casterbridge plant
ticked on the washstand and the moon soaked with wet light his tangled
“Sit there,” she said, placing me on the sofa, “while we take our
The footman still lingered. “She looks such a rough one,” said he.
himself that could now kindle the lustre of animated expression: he was
debated hotly as to what should be done when the interval came.
“These things, as well as the dread of the girl discovering our
natural insight—she did not lack; learning, accomplishment—those, alas,
these intricate questions. Often when I thought of this I could make no
      young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom
Instantly the wicked woman gave a loud cry of fear, and then, as



other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy
doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without
and I was the master of the house in Corn Street. But now I stand
everybody will be there. You can come to my sister’s box. She has got
quite brimming with sentiment; while he from merely affording her a new


      in London for the winter, and concluded with her brother’s regret
room,—the one next mine,—and fetch a cloak you will see there.”
other occupation.”
      between her sisters’ beauty and her own, it was suspected by her
“Would you have me take the verdict of Europe on it?” he inquired.
I. had collected his forces. This city had remained faithful to him,
circled with a double halo. He watched earnestly the passing of the
“And the poor folk who had to eat it whether or no,” said the
for, with your superior mind, you cannot be either so dull or so
Back Lane, I think.”
are going to die.” There was a horrible moment. Dorian did not know
ago,” said I, speaking as seriously as he had done. “And not even in
it in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are


it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide field

beyond, and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, her life
disappeared, so I sat down discreetly in the living-room and read a
The roads were heavy, the night misty; my conductor let his horse walk
      know my mother’s ideas as to the necessity of constant company
Rochester and the beautiful Blanche; but Adèle came in, and the

the kitchen door. Mr. St. John, when he saw me, merely bowed and passed
“He’s an Oggsford man.”
CHAPTER XI
prevailed—a proceeding which seemed to afford some humour to Henchard,
meantime overjoyed, and, in the bustle of preparation, only recognised in

genial fire. In an undertone she gave some directions to Hannah. Ere
under the heavy chandelier, wandered to the wall above the piano. A

it—a difference; and it is a good, and not a bad action to mark broadly
I obeyed her directions. “Read the letter,” she said.

“If I were sure o’t I’d lay information,” said Longways emphatically.
you? I suppose he bored you. If so, he never forgave you. It’s a habit
How fragrant was the steam of the beverage, and the scent of the toast!
“I’ll call you about noon.”

      circumstance, I shall hope to be in the future secured, when the
unpresentable woman who was an incurable drunkard. He had set up house
“Well, I cannot return to the house,” I thought; “I cannot sit by the
prayers.
is not worthy of notice; I do not choose that either you or your
formerly, and ascended to the fair. Here, too it was evident that the
      Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard
of a pound of tea and two pounds of sugar. She put the sleeping child
arrived, and waiting to speak with him.
ran in the roadway or crawled up the steps before the gaping doors or
“And the carriage?”

assented; and when people deplored the fact, and asked why it was, he
Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence,
      replied. She said no more, and they went down the other dance and
the sky.
Sur le marbre d’un escalier.”
      few minutes longer without saying much to anybody, went away.
own, if ever man had. I knew him from a boy, you see: and for my part,

Now! Would you believe that now? That’s the truth. Upon my word and
sometimes for hours together. While Mary drew, Diana pursued a course
      myself; but the grounds are delightful. They have some of the
      had been, rather than what was. Charlotte’s first letters were

“Her name is Reed, sir—Mrs. Reed.”
uncomely face. He had never seen any one so marvellous.


      divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
word!—I meant, however, to be a bigamist; but fate has out-manoeuvred

age? She must be eight or nine years old.”
or Judy or June, and their last names were either the melodious names

humiliation.
steaming after his exertions.
“We have lost our way,” said Dorothy. “Can you tell us where the
tremble. Dear Victor, banish these dark passions. Remember the
revolt which had stirred my corruption before, he thought it better to
now that there was nothing to hinder it—to right her position—which in
      terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana without the power of
And, reader, do you think I feared him in his blind ferocity?—if you
 XXXIII
It was almost nine o’clock before he reached the club, where he found
But that heart is already laid on a sacred altar: the fire is arranged
      marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.
“Pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about,” he answered
      Colonel Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have
You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the
      could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as
of false doctrine. Now isn’t that an astonishing thing?”
contrary to my nature and habits: but I think her occupation touched a
XXXIX.
to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption
each of her temples her hair, of a very dark brown, was clustered in
the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed to be

“No.”
      She was engaged one day as she walked, in perusing Jane’s last
the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian Gray very

entered or left the apartment: I could even tell who they were; I could
      nieces, turned the conversation.
      they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene. Her
Instead of speaking, I smiled; and not a very complacent or submissive
“I don’t drink,” he said in a low, halting, apologetic voice. “You

superior to circumstances; so I should—so I should; but you see I was
“Is Mr. Rochester living at Thornfield Hall now?” I asked, knowing, of
  Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her;
      vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had
“Is it unwelcome news?”
“Barbara,” said she, “can you not bring a little more bread and butter?
We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some
I have now been married ten years. I know what it is to live entirely
His friends of the Corporation did not specially respond. Henchard was
their shabby home in the Euston Road. It was after five o’clock, and
passage be opened, I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and

I appealed to one who, in the discharge of what he believed his duty,
group, and then he ran up to me; it was all he could do,—there was no
“Well, well—never mind—it is all over and past,” said Newson
as an ornament of oratory. He hoisted the Union Jack on the pinnacles
that the speaker had secret sources of information. In this case the
“Yes, indeed,” answered the little woman. “But I am a good witch, and

“I am so sorry for you, Alan,” he murmured, “but you leave me no
associated with racing tissues.
Secheron, a village at the distance of half a league from the city. The sky
darling child!’
to a big building, exactly in the middle of the City, which was the
when they grow older they know it. But I don’t want money. It is only
of comparatively no account during their successes; and though they

Standing in the middle of the arena at that time there by degrees

She welcomed me with the greatest affection. “Your arrival, my dear
life. Thanks to her, Constantine was now senior curate in Balbrigan
CLAY
concatenations of phenomena wherein each is known to have its

Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before
“Let us go down to the theatre. When Sibyl comes on the stage you will
      complaining. Our importance, our respectability in the world must

you offer it.”
and be reassured that she was doing the right thing after all.
complete.

“It shall be done,” said the King, and at once the Winged Monkeys
not, that composed the antiquated slop in which she dealt. Vessels
      from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to
      village, when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain
belongings, and every scrap of Lucetta’s writing that he possessed was
return to Brocklehurst Hall in the course of a week or two: my good
doing.”
plates—look ye here.” He threw open the door and disclosed the
      talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal
Here was a new card turned up! It is a fine thing, reader, to be lifted
question again recurred, to be answered only with groans.

roof; we heard him call ‘Bertha!’ We saw him approach her; and then,

      acting by design. As yet, she cannot even be certain of the
ardent desire of my soul.
you; then you will not want me or any one else, happen what may.
But wasn’t Maria glad when the women had finished their tea and the
      very day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while
in all the Land of Oz—the one who lives in the West.”
“But what about my man at the Orleans?”
“About Gatsby.”
day. He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and

temporarily misconstrue what she had seen. But joy soon effaced every
      they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give

life forever.
hisself, ‘T’other took me in, I knowed this one first; she’s a sensible
Dorothy ate a hearty supper and was waited upon by the rich Munchkin
that when boys were that kind they ought to be whipped and well
“You’re no yoursel’ the day?” Donald inquired.
seem, by the importance of you all—my good mama included—ascribe to
      would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part of the house.”

      of falsehood he had imposed on you; but his success is not
vague. It may seem strange to sophisticated minds that a sane young
was inserted as in a wall. Outside the door the tall traveller stopped,
absence of consolatory gentleness; stern allusions to Calvinistic
wife had taken him so literally—as much could be seen in his face, and
horrible horned adders. The harsh intervals and shrill discords of
mansion inhabited by a gentleman of that name. My own house was an
Dorothy carried the shoes into the house and placed them on the table.
“Oxford, New Mexico,” snorted Tom contemptuously, “or something like

among them?
      hither? If he no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing,
seem as if a prop were withdrawn, but rather as if a motive were gone:
      “My dear Sir,


      herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her

 Two Gallants
      humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to _talk_ of
must have gone through a great deal of fatigue and trouble to have
in these parts, or you would have heard what happened last

Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtrusively and with a
Ségouin shepherded his party into politics. Here was congenial ground
hastened towards it. Near the churchyard, and in the middle of a
are not as clever as you think us, Hannah. We don’t speak German, and
“You didn’t look so interested.”
      the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw

been to the opera with you several times,” said Dorian, opening his
straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length

two years. During all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and
      “My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these. They
not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
the achievement.

      “I should be sorry indeed, if it were. _We_ were always good
the stairs to settle his guttering candle. They halted too on the steps
given to his fellow professor. He heard with attention the little

      at different tables, and she had nothing to hope, but that his
that the charming lady was inside the confronting walls, and to wonder
      was too much afraid of him to talk; Elizabeth was secretly
“My feet they are sore, and my limbs they are weary;

leaded panes of the window streamed the apricot-coloured light of a

“Yes; I am thinking of Mr. Henchard’s sudden liking for that young man.
      during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months,
woodchopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as
since his (supposed) temporary parting from her in Jersey.
this. He had the key, and no one else could enter it. Beneath its


room with a ditty.
go and speak to her; I only saw her from the schoolroom window, and
as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow’?”
with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that
science and discoveries. Yet why do I say this? I have myself been
but I suppose you will have to ask leave before you can get off?”
tone, “Goodnight t’ye. Of course I’m glad to come if you want me.”
believe, in the main sincere. But we are living in a sceptical and, if
“Every boy,” he said, “has a little sweetheart.”
“I am tired, sir.”



vanished into air. Among the broken fragments of the last five minutes
called out. Everything was still. Finally, after vainly trying to force
“There’s a cyclone coming, Em,” he called to his wife. “I’ll go look

      certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it
this is called an institution for educating orphans.”
“How does it happen there’s no good bread?” asked Mrs. Henchard.
      Had she known her sister sought to tear her from such prospects
When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram
me a good wife; that she is not the partner suited to me; that I should

of you.”

      to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the
you and Rivers?”


have cost the princess half her kingdom. Of course my grandfather and
held sacred. The threadbare phrases, the inane expressions of sympathy,
Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair came
office would be for him. He could remember the way in which Mr Alleyne
another spot, it was not really where the tent had stood but it seemed
“Oh, Robert! how do you do? I remember you very well: you used to give
      soon cease to regret him at all.”
“What is?”
      extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in
instinctively find out, as I have done, that it is not your forte to
Contents
Here then I was in the third storey, fastened into one of its mystic
friends who love you dearly. Your father’s health is vigorous, and he

“Then, signior, I lay on you my sovereign behest to furbish up your
“Why did I never hear of this?” I asked.

private bottle of gin by her_, and now and then took a drop over-much.
but since dinner (Mrs. Reed, when there was no company, dined early)
      Jane.
were still wonderful in their depth and brilliancy of colour. They
passed: I had regained my normal state of health, but no new allusion
      It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. Darcy

pass quite as a blank. They were those which treat of the haunts of
Sibyl Vane, a young actress recently engaged at the Royal Theatre,
eyes rested on his stretched-out legs and boots. “Yes,” he said at
      “You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of
      done in education without steady and regular instruction, and

      disagreeable man all to yourself. But I hope you will not mind

the asceticism that deadens the senses, as of the vulgar profligacy
      “Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.”

been melted by a bucket of water, and Dorothy at once unlocked the gate
      manner he immediately began an enquiry after her health, imputing
      “Only this; that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose
voice, of which I heard only the words, “old woman,”—“quite

“It isn’t but he has it, anyway. Not like the other tinker.”
      changing colour. It was many months since she had mentioned his
flattened out, and patted his straw into shape again.
that reason, sing it _con spirito_.”

from the polished glass. The very sharpness of the contrast used to
their tongues had been loosened. Villona, with immense respect, began
      July, and must be in London again within a month, and as that
as the river carried us away.”
her crimes, and wrenched myself from connection with her mental
“And you know you have been a little silly, Mr. Gray, and that you
should never put one’s worship into words.”
face to face discussing, in impassioned voices, whether Mrs. Wilson
vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth. From this
Clerval will be ever whispered in my ear. They are dead, and but one
She looked at me with evident suspicion: “Nay, she never sold stuff i’

morning it rained; the whole of the following day was wet. Do not ask

russet, hazel, nor ash; a sticky black bonnet that seemed to have been
locked the door; and when I dared move, I got up and went to see. Alas!
sailing-vessel which was being discharged on the opposite quay. Mahony
      information; and he soon afterwards said aloud, “Mrs. Bennet,

arm from which she was pulling pieces of bread, and handing them to
there is only room for two in the brougham. You must follow us in a

became whispered, and then openly discussed in Casterbridge that the
howl more wildly, the gloom to deepen to darkness, and the confusion to
      for you to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to
were in progress, there was quite a sympathetic reaction in the town,
the blood in my veins. It is what I have to look forward to, and to

think I have not suffered. If you had come in yesterday at a particular
swallows. How pleasant it was in the garden! And how delightful other
now, here I lay again crushed and trodden on; and could I ever rise
“Oh, quite well! I never felt better.”
utilized by the inhabitants as a signal for shutting their shops. No
“There is one thing you might do, Lucetta,” he said. “But not exactly
      order the carriage. An airing would do me a great deal of good, I
of the child pierced the drum of his ear. It was useless, useless! He
impression of a much larger number. Some of them were very tall; many
“I do not understand you,” said Sir Thomas, growing rather red.
that, when I have paid my father’s debts, all the patrimony remaining

parted. She is now dead, and the husband comes paying me addresses
pleasing. When I turned from it and repassed the trap-door, I could
personage; but he was very kind to me. The sketch of Rosamond’s
Some parleying was audible in the hall, and soon the new-comer entered.
to know.”
“It is I, Aunt Reed.”
fast from between his fingers; a groan burst from his heaving breast. I
always be so? ... You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray.



showed me over the house: it was hung with tapestry; but the tapestry
Dorian Gray threw his hat and coat upon the table and passed into the
“What is it?” asked the little old woman, and looked, and began to
plunged into the lake.

      or have made him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent
“Deliver it to her personally, please,” said Henchard. “Well, I am glad
“An Oxford man!” He was incredulous. “Like hell he is! He wears a pink
“The dance?” He dismissed all the dances he had given with a snap of
      death of half the good people in Meryton to attempt to place him


chill and failing at the heart. I was actually permitting myself to
The answer he received was an expression of Miss Templeman’s sorrow at
thinking I should like to live here. But I wonder if I shall.”

calm and serene joy. I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial

Miss Gryce snored at last; she was a heavy Welshwoman, and till now her
      “When I am in the country,” he replied, “I never wish to leave

turned his face.
yellow brick. When she had gone several miles she thought she would
heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were

before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was
hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome
“Mr. Rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests.”

      disappointment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion, too!
“the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone, and those forlorn regions of dreary
intermittent, and that mankind might some night be innocently sleeping

Some of the Monkeys seized the Tin Woodman and carried him through the

march straight to—the devil?”
eye to your interlocutor’s face: there was penetration and power in
Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable
Fitzpatrick away from his screen and told him that her daughter had
sat, Mr. Rochester entered, unannounced, and looking at us, seemed to
against a chest of drawers with his back to the light. She had taken
“Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!” she said, standing on her left foot.
was little reason to suppose. He was a wanderer and a stranger, almost

continued to utter wild and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I
There were vine leaves in her hair. The purple spilled from the cup she
her romantic desires by eating a great deal of Turkish Delight in
above their knees and laid their hats in security. They sat well back
      the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first
      Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went
over the fire, and seemed reading in a little black book, like a
mountain shook off turf and flower, had only heath for raiment and crag
“In that field, Adèle, I was walking late one evening about a fortnight
And the Lion answered, “I am a Cowardly Lion, afraid of everything. I
“’Tis wonderful how he could get a lady of her quality to go snacks wi’
tram-drivers. Near the Bank Ségouin drew up and Jimmy and his friend
trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune
The composure of the eyes irritated him. They repelled him and defied
fragile-looking. I wandered, on a moonlight night, through the



unwisely as Charles the First sometimes did; and I thought what a pity
slatterns, and such like, there’s cust few left to ornament a song with
become a burden to me. I want to escape, to go away, to forget. It was
known them: cases of ... immorality....”
Victor’s face perfectly. It was like a placid mask of servility. There
      five minutes. At present, however, I consider myself as quite

recommend a working partner; if so he wished to offer himself. He could

acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix
the voice of a lion: ‘_Credo!_’”
guiltlessness of vice, than in his prowess in virtue.”
back to us as soon as possible.”
I was experiencing an ordeal: a hand of fiery iron grasped my vitals.


in figure; with a very pretty face, of that order the French term

remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in
blood, blends with her brains, and seasons the marrow of her bones. ‘Il
He now furtively raised his eyes: he glanced at me, irresolute,
His heart beat faster as Daisy’s white face came up to his own. He
“It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire.
brought by Henchard for her as a wedding gift and token of repentance.
“But will it hurt me?—is it inflammatory?”
      consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to
He did not leave for Cambridge the next day, as he had said he would.
the other. You ask Hogan, my boy. I showed him a bit about London when
The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory brought madness
“You had this morning a breakfast which you could not eat; you must be
      and dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money
      rest.”
crept in; but now I covered every crevice by which I might be perceived

and had a presence and port calculated to set off handsome attire.
      but I entreat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that

      became him; but, though she could not look, she could listen, and
half-one or so when I meet any of the old crowd: that’s all.”

crystals and tasselled in plaited metal threads. He opened it. Inside

      to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was
      the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of
after their sufferings in the lake of fire. I greedily devoured the
piano and played voluntaries for them. The other men played game after
the second-hand booksellers, to Hickey’s on Bachelor’s Walk, to Webb’s

flattered me, and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms and

      “I never heard that it was.”
I would have murdered you!”

intervals as the moon looked out, it was but a long pale line, unvaried
or, last but not least, when I consider our youngest hostess, talented,
      and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time,
“To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses.”
silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear
country, we may reap every tranquil blessing—what can disturb our
do, you little know me. A soft hope blent with my sorrow that soon I
He stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body. As he rode
the wake of her sister’s body.
slope, listening to him.
and saw that every woman got her four slices. There was a great deal of
Two globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page. Dorian Gray

      ball was, at any rate, a ball. And even Mary could assure her
dreadful, hideous, and uncouth.
you out to sea in a boat, and all that sort of thing—”
“We must pay our way even before we must be respectable,” replied her
“Farrington? What is the meaning of this? Why have I always to complain
tranquil as to the consequences of the affair.

VIII

conscious also of the shallowness and vanity of his mother’s nature,
rough.
to the constable, saying:
beards. But the little woman was doubtless much older. Her face was

dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him. There was
“Why?”
“I have none.”

back. The man stood waiting for his orders. Dorian looked at him for a
downstairs.
Nobody answered; and the female dealer in staylaces interposed.

was such that on reaching Lucetta’s door he did not knock but opened
“Evening approaches,” said I, as I looked towards the window. “I have

questioner was looking at her, turned her eyes down; and then seemed
bound for Havre-de-Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.



stepped across the clean and quiet little street from the shoemaker’s
troubled by the scent of the flowers.
“We won’t be late if we start now,” she insisted aloud.
“Forecast the weather?”
“We don’t know who he is, sir. That is what I took the liberty of
      very unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered her the carriage,
looked around her. There was the Scarecrow, still standing patiently in
thing that perhaps had better have been let alone. But I wanted to
      and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the
piano. She and Mr. Rochester sang a duet.”

shall die, and what I now feel be no longer felt. Soon these burning
heart-sickening despair that I then endured. The person to whom I

being charming. This is a fault.
“But I don’t want to be rechristened, Harry,” rejoined the duchess,
colour, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life’s sores,
a heart; for a fool would not know what to do with a heart if he had
“I never killed anything, willingly,” she sobbed. “Even if I wanted to,
“but that is not the same thing as being one’s real father after all.
absorbed enough; but that blue eye of his had a habit of leaving the
his hand, “you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my
with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a
intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken
As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black

      On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining at Meryton, he
be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in
thing is to sit back and let Mr. Nobody from Nowhere make love to your
random way o’ speaking. ’A was always such a man of underthoughts.”
unlucky; but Fortune has knocked me about since: she has even kneaded

white forehead, her clustered and shining curls, and beaming dark
balance, fell, and woke.”
the form of an X and his back towards the door. The next time he came
err in staying.”
whole interior of this room could be surveyed from the top of a flight
lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely
He did not leave the stile, and I hardly liked to ask to go by. I
      their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it
extenuation of the absent one’s deceit. Even had he been present

into which they had fled. The girls doubled so adroitly that their
      Mr. Darcy has never seen the view.”
he did not turn his head. Newson’s shadow passed the window. He was
everything in the vicinity—except his wife, who moved close to Tom.
present a waistcoat of purple tabinet, with little foxes’ heads upon
blood with the dust.



would suit me so well!”
“I am afraid I never shall do that.”
he’s as bad as bad.”
Gabriel had not gone to the door with the others. He was in a dark part
“Why, about an hour.”
surplice at the lowly altar, the clerk beside him. All was still: two
dashing away some tears from my eyes; his language was torture to me;
      again with our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so
only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book

anyone else would take an interest in her. As the husband was often
Fairfax received me with her usual plain friendliness. Leah smiled, and
and to have as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don’t want any
      could be.
“He’s not so bad, is he?” said Aunt Kate to Gabriel.

The piano had stopped; Villona must have gone up on deck. It was a
humankind sinned against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his
      that we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you
warmth, “every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly


      however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young
“Come, Alan, you must decide at once.”
smouldering anger and revengefulness. He felt humiliated and
strangers! At least shake hands.”
It was a random shot, and yet the reporter’s instinct was right.
“It’s too late.”
When they met again, two days later, it was Gatsby who was breathless,
book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase.
      effort more, and, turning to Elizabeth, said:
      excellent understanding, and super-excellent disposition of Jane,
“But why do you think it’s not good for children, Mr Cotter?” she
I have promised that someone should watch for him and give him instant
      never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my
expressing thorough entry into the subject, “that’s how we’ll have it.
journey, reckoning the wedding-day as one. There were only two towns,

Harry, Mr. Gray is ill again. He is going to faint.”
      “I must go instantly to my mother;” she cried. “I would not on
really express pain? I was at first unable to solve these questions,
clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture. You must open



      gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
was some Italian or American.”

Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel—he stared at it



The painter shuddered in spite of himself. “Dorian, if I told you, you
      were suppressed by his friends’ interference; whether he had been
“Yes, yes,” from Dr. Bath, Lawyer Long, Alderman Tubber, and several
opening a restaurant. How could I admire her? But tell me, what did she
very pleasant refuge in time of trouble.”
Jopp gathered up the letters, and it being now somewhat late he did not
If ye go not, you’ll ha’e your death standing there!”
      you get there.”
the rest of the world, should believe that the episode was rather her

girdled by a broken wall, and its newly-risen crescent, attesting the
      He then told her of Georgiana’s delight in her acquaintance, and
      a change so sudden and so important, fatigue, and a recollection
Ah! in what a monstrous moment of pride and passion he had prayed that
“You’re not grown so very tall, Miss Jane, nor so very stout,”
At first the little creatures, many though they were, could hardly stir

original, a vigorous, an expanded mind. I have known you, Mr.
      a pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will
disappointment, sourly disposed against all men, and especially against
after her continually. They used to watch him—servants will, you know,
her afore, that’s their business, not ours.”
obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth

“I have a particular reason for wishing to assist at the ceremony.”
each man to strictly limit himself to half-a-pint of liquor. This
“I am going on to the other place,” he said after a pause.

As the piano had twice begun the prelude to the first figure Mary Jane

up all to him. Missis refused: her means have long been much reduced by
centuries; the pool he was intending to make his death-bed. At first it
sullen heavy youth who, in coarse, ill-fitting clothes, was in the
woods far below them.
poor girls, he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now
a Titan or a toy. What a pity it was that such beauty was destined to

I was not disposed to care much for the nursemaid’s transitory anger;
fortuitously about … like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward
and gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow
      of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own
quiet till morning.”
be a coward.”
to be happy, and I _will_ be happy. Goodbye!”
you left this morning?”
memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on their

said, “really spent your time in studying such nonsense?”
me, Alan! Don’t you understand? They will hang me for what I have
death of his father: he was at Marsh End now, and would very likely

      “You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne
myself to undertake?”
         That you loved me still the same._
for baiting with dogs to make them tender before they were killed in
descended, but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations.
her and she thought of some mothers she knew who could not get their
the western sky, now seemed one mass of shadow.
under-mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration. I
Some time in the afternoon I raised my head, and looking round and
      moreover, that I believed myself mistaken in supposing, as I had
forget that, as my father snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly

“Yes,” said he, “there is my glory and joy. I am the servant of an
the schoolroom was immediately surrounded by a double row of great
the stepfather and daughter enjoyed much serenity in the pleasant,
      minute; but let me, or let the servant go after Mr. and Mrs.

over me. I asked for leave to go to the bazaar on Saturday night. My
“‘Heaven forbid! Even if you were really criminal, for that can only
Poole, and to hear what he would answer; I wanted to ask him plainly if
mortals I am invisible. I will now seat myself upon my throne, that you
      and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown. He then handed her in, Maria
He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed
the smile expired, and the sentence was abandoned unfinished. She put


little sigh and said:
      she thought it probable, that his affection might be reanimated,
      “‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her


said, _we worship at different altars_, he said, _but our belief is the

had a dazzling effect upon the travellers.
      “No—I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full
half a dozen men, and drowsing asleep at dawn with the beads and
about folk’s houses at this time o’ night. If you’ve any

sitting flushed and bareheaded on the table. He did not seem to have
the boughs of the chestnut: it wandered away—away—to an indefinite
“You are cold; you are sick; and you are silly.”

studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me
forehead with a cool musk-scented vinegar.
wrong!”
      wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it;

The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in
girl could possibly have had of her own lapses—really slight now, for
answer worthy of your acceptance: a present has many faces to it, has

The Press and the Public are but vague personifications for me, and I
“I often heard he was one of the most intellectual men in Europe,” said
      actions—may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object
kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had
      pleasanter people or prettier girls in his life; everybody had been
latticed window, within a foot of the ground, made still smaller by the
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
      towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form
      He will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.”
A volume of Byron’s poems lay before him on the table. He opened it
me daily, and yet, if you still love me, be always cold and distant?”
take no heed of it. And if the person should say anything to you, be
“Sometimes.”

“And the pain in your chest?”
“Look at that,” she whispered, and then after a moment: “I’d like to
      everybody. _That_ is my idea of good breeding; and those persons

He had done. Turning from me, he once more
faces dead and gone. Filled with friends gone now forever. I can’t
 XI
“A man and a woman with a little child came into my tent,” the woman
hope had not left him. He felt better after having eaten than he had
closing before me for ever, I shudder to reflect on it.

“Well, it was not in my heart to undeceive her when the deed was done,”

library made up of old numbers of _The Union Jack_, _Pluck_ and _The


“You have quarreled more deeply than I know of.”


It was very different when the masters of the science sought
from you. Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of
and, knowing his time well, waited only a few minutes before she heard
Ayr” was its name, so Mr. Farfrae had said, and that it was very
face, and your marvellous untroubled youth—I can’t believe anything
I’d much rather go back to Kansas with you and be in a circus again.”
as bosomed in hill and wood, and rising from the verge of a stream?
till that moment, he shot up his head again, saying:
as suddenly as she came? To-morrow, I fear I shall find her no more.”
After a few moments he drew back the latch and slipped out, shutting

know, that the old fellow used to smoke.... I was afraid, man, she’d
The painter stared at him. “My dear boy, what nonsense!” he cried. “Do
asleep, and when I left her, I sought the garden.
Gabriel asked himself was he the cause of her abrupt departure. But she
wife. Besides they were dreadfully afraid that Freddy Malins might turn
Simultaneously I heard his voice, gruff, muffled, husky, at the hall


The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible






colour of her cheeks.
XLV.
The Rescue of the Tin Woodman
forest, for there were no houses near. The tree made a good, thick
be said to form one tree—a ruin, but an entire ruin.

last night again recurred to me. I interpreted it as a warning of
leave it again soon? Mrs. Fairfax said he seldom stayed here longer
to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of
Ignatius Gallaher puffed thoughtfully at his cigar and then, in a calm
Rowland knew all this; but they thought only of the thirty thousand
words of the fiend rang in my ears like a death-knell; they appeared
noticed how old and worn her shoes were.
there and then for what the tradesman offered, and went with the

very well; but now comes the tragic part about Johnny. One fine day the
“And this beautiful and accomplished lady, she is not yet married?”
it was lowered; you crossed, and a hand helped you to land yourself,
bloom would fade—the sweet charm of freshness would leave it. I did not
when Bessie brought a candle into my closet and found me already up and
or softening.


      man it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference,
the narrow garret staircase. I lingered in the long passage to which
one girl—in the lap of the other was cushioned a black cat.

bedclothes round her; my elbow, resting on a corner of the quilt, fixed
This was the nearest approach Henchard could make to the full truth. As

I heard the familiar “jug-jug-spat!” of a motorcycle, and a frantic

through a copy of Clay’s Economics, starting at the Finnish tread that
careful. When Oz gives me a heart of course I needn’t mind so much.”

(for the tiny chairs and mirrors, the fairy plates and cups, were her
“His appearance,—I forget what description you gave of his
country. Now I am twenty-eight and am in reality more illiterate than many
presence-chamber of imperial Nature was broken only by the brawling

a clerk in the office of the Sub-Sheriff and he had recently become
grotesque by terror, twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain,
Express_. Now, aren’t you ashamed of yourself?”
      attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion. The
“Not I. I know nothing, sir, outside eight shillings a week.”
was a low ottoman near the marble chimney-piece; the bed rose before
      satisfied with the occurrences of the evening. Elizabeth

“Did you? You’ve a quick ear.”

being common to all. When it came to my turn, I drank, for I was
Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see

had no need to make any change; I should not be called upon to quit my
He replied not: he seemed serious—abstracted; he sighed; he half-opened

moment, to one reflecting on those facts, to be a curious imperfection
examples of natural politeness, and innate self-respect, as well as of
loudly:
may call me if you want anything in the night.”


which she examined me.
her she leaned forward with enthusiasm. “You look at him sometimes
low-lying Durnover lanes; so that the precincts of the bridge formed
and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the
were Mr Holohan, Mr Fitzpatrick, Miss Beirne, two of the stewards, the
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
young Englishmen dotted about; all well dressed, all looking a little



had been but torpor, from which they were now summoned and forced to

We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the West Hundreds.
      remembered to you and her mother.—Yours, etc.,
us hard-hearted beings not to be more moved at the death of so near a

“I wish she were ill,” he rejoined. “But she seems to me to be simply
      “Oh, yes!—that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and
necessary, to give to their return the piquancy with which I wished it
A small, flat-nosed Jew raised his large head and regarded me with two
unclosed could be seen, as through tunnels, the mossy gardens at the
by James Joyce
bones such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chile, and the sonorous green
stop under Wilson’s sign. After a moment the proprietor emerged from
passing, she lifted her eyes. What a strange light inspired them! What
“To the end of turning to profit the talents which God has committed to
“Unjust!—unjust!” said my reason, forced by the agonising stimulus into
      who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he
Nature’s trowel. At night the forms of passengers were patterned by the
offices connected with her own house and the school as her occupation
feelings of affection, and they were requited by detestation and scorn.

play with the wit and beauty that make such plays delightful to us. Is
has reached to in the town, to own—to let us call on him as—his distant

deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are. There is an expression of

landed again in dear dirty Dublin.... Here you are, Tommy. Water? Say
his discomfiture. On the last flight of stairs he passed Jack Mooney
Dorothy had only one other dress, but that happened to be clean and was
eyes caught the melody and echoed it in radiance, then closed for a



will say the very thought of you makes me sick, and that you treated me
and phrases from the notice which his book would get. _“Mr Chandler has

Francis. Or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. You can have

which he could think of for meeting his long-lost wife, and at the same
no one in the world she so much wanted to see. That was a way she
room, with their names painted thereon; and when to the familiar series
this matter, absolutely to believe we have a genuine witch in the
Probably in the school they had gone to as girls that kind of work had
bed-foot with a basin in her hand, and a gentleman sat in a chair near
      she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her
      not want abilities. He can be a conversible companion if he
illuminated the cadence of the air with words expressing grief:
amusement would then drive away incipient disease; and I promised myself
Daisy peremptorily called: “Wait!”
“No,” said Henchard gloomily. “He won’t be that, because he’s shortly
let her come to any harm. Mother, you must watch over her.”
eyes rested long upon her face and on her hair: and, as he thought of
to withdraw it. You have but one end to keep in view—how the work you
      _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble in achieving a

most concerned, and advise ’em to keep out of the way?”
her hand on my shoulder, and, stooping, examined my face.
overflow like two cups filled above the brim: have you never remarked
am sure you can eat another breakfast? You couldn’t have eaten much so
      contradicted.”
basket, and found he could carry it. Then lifting the tent door he

Why, seeing that it was pre-eminently an airy, accessible, and
“You are mad, Dorian.”
      in reply to her minute enquiries, that though Jane always
occasionally in Rome, Naples, and Florence. Provided with plenty of
      walked back with them to Longbourn, and during the walk he
toward the door resolved itself into the words “Oh, my God!” uttered
Templeman’s. A little stimulated at not finding her ready and
smallest of the children were assembled: to this inferior class I was
principles: I supposed, then, they had reasons for holding them such as
“Are you a Munchkin?” asked Dorothy.
a clean sheet.
to overflow; in whose emotions I had a part. How near had I approached
“No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster’n forty. Going
      animation to her face, as made her look handsomer than ever.
however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be
The Scarecrow sat upon the Lion’s back, and the big beast walked to the
never thought thus to have declared aloud.
      particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as
down my energy. The last was an awful blank: something like the world
dæmon, to whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I

lightly, but firmly, with the other hand.
      Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have
      Brighton. He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour
      given me the assurance I require.”
She tossed her head and assumed a haughty voice:
“That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian.”
      of checking her exuberant spirits, and of teaching her that her
      strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his
raincoat, dragging a lawn-mower, tapped at my front door and said that


contemplating some terrible form of amusement. Whatever it was, the
      colour changed, and she said no more.
porch steps into the house. I sat down for a few minutes with my head
her thoughts over their meal, the mother’s face being strangely bright
sought in all my drawers to see that no article was left behind; and
to the bed): “and now return to your own room. I shall do very well on
was general all over Ireland. It was falling on every part of the dark
      before, to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening. Lady
      “Oh! do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not


      hers, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her

fine growths of hair which luxuriated in either nostril. After a
      “Did Charlotte dine with you?”
unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had

floral pattern prevalent in such articles at that time.
goes in for games.”

      distant clump. But of all the views which his garden, or which
“It makes them anxious; for might not other women despise them?”
Meyer Wolfshiem’s name wasn’t in the phone book. The butler gave me
as determinedly as I had retreated. I knelt down by him; I turned his
his memory, and bargains were made by the tongue alone, was swept away.
“You have saved my life: I have a pleasure in owing you so immense a



and then drove across the park to join the shooting-party. The crisp
Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has
mind over morals.”
the sailor. The tinge of indifference which had at first been visible
      as improbable. Kitty and Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas,
      Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in


admiration is not worth having.”
from their transparency are known in the East as “woven air,” and
  It is the same: for, be it joy or sorrow,
unceremonious directness, a searching, decided steadfastness in his
So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had happened, but Wilson
“How do you mean, Mr Cotter?” asked my aunt.

“Jane, you are under a mistake: what is the matter with you? Why do you


Indies!” he reiterated; and he went over the syllables three times,

The vehemence of emotion, stirred by grief and love within me, was


an operatic _artiste_ had fallen ill, he had undertaken the part of the
for us to be at once as free as in solitude, as gay as in company. We

subdue her—to be her mistress in spite both of her nature and her will.
“That you were related by marriage.”
are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my eyes, I hear
      some of the family. Mrs. Hurst and her sister scarcely opened
The Scarecrow was both pleased and proud at the fulfillment of his
trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. When I am with her,
      you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has
horse.
“Yet are you not capricious, sir?”
submitted the moment the Pope spoke.”
Lane I saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself. I passed it as
      In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to
Bessie would rather have stayed, but she was obliged to go, because

its ruler and the people like me. The only thing that worries me is how
the van of his men.
listening to the skirts that swept against it and to the shuffling of
side. It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and
cabbage_.”
of chilling hauteur: when he met me unexpectedly, the encounter seemed
existence, their presence, their liberty and strength again one day.
      country.

duty, you have a right to expect at his hands. Be sure that is the only
You have made me wretched beyond expression. You have left me no power
arbitress of my life—my genius for good or evil—waited there in humble
      to know, that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere

extraordinary influence over me. I was dominated, soul, brain, and
mother was dead. Tizzie Dunn was dead, too, and the Waters had gone
to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and
      at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in
our adventure should be discovered. Mahony looked regretfully at his
“When do you take supper?”
at once that the house was filled with paper. The audience behaved
necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made

      expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship. They
      entailed away from your own children; and I am sure, if I had
forgotten that. What sort of boy is he? If he is like his mother, he
for water. The constable knelt down also to help. The young man washed
would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they are brought to
should be wretched. Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy? They

of his carpet-bag glowed from the corner of the room.
same_. Struck me as very well put.”
softened towards the self-alienated man.


friends; and forget that abortive efforts from want of heart are as
“My lily-flower, you are right now, as always.”
A calm, subdued triumph, blent with a longing earnestness, marked his
person and what such a person had said to him and what he had said to
and I trust she will show herself grateful for the inestimable
Fortunately for him she had on the other side Lord Faudel, a most

      otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton,
traveller, by this time struggling himself free of his steed. His
      young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to
“This isn’t the road,” said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and
countenance—these blue, still lips forbidden to unclose—these eyes now
sat a long time over it. The shop was very quiet. The proprietor
      felicity, Mr. Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by
in future that I did not visit them, and give them an hour’s teaching
aside a little, and Myrtle Wilson was peering down at the car. So
thrush were sweet and enticing.


“Till what? You delight in half-phrases.”


mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her lips, but
“Why, man, it’s nigh on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me

spare, he says.”

I knew now why her face was familiar—its pleasing contemptuous
development by any formal acceptance of creed or system, or of
She remained writing for a short time, folded her paper carefully,
when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address
flesh and such an assortment of black eyes?”
      reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in any other

she’s got used to the place; and then she’s not forty yet, and strong
blandly:
study would have been irksome and almost intolerable. To examine the
      This was a sad omen of what her mother’s behaviour to the
home; she heard his footsteps clacking along the concrete pavement and
“and that is the same thing. See!” she continued, pointing to the
      She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.
Lucetta’s adroit and pleasant manœuvre with Elizabeth-Jane).
      indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his
of ringing, “Not to make Phoebe come up twice.” She went down on her
with tears.
neat, and had now the afternoon before me to spend as I would.
often heard the servants say, got her to promise before he died that

five hungry babes. Among these there was one which attracted my mother far
was amongst my fellow-beings. I felt it would be degrading to faint

later period I discovered) from the pages of Pamela, and Henry, Earl of
      after her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of

Rochester has a wife now living.”
funeral, or even his name. The rain poured down his thick glasses, and
there were fewer to feed; the sick could eat little; our

perpetrators of the mischief. He resolved to wait till the funeral was

office next morning, and invited her to come to tea.
  Chapter 40
ever lain in its meditative soberness.

trains, men-carrying, were plunging home through the rain from New
introduced himself I’d got a strong impression that he was picking his
      “While Mary is adjusting her ideas,” he continued, “let us return
The moon hung low in the sky like a yellow skull. From time to time a
all this finery and buy myself grammar-books and dictionaries and a
      unless there were something very objectionable? If they believed
      feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
“Miss Temple, Miss Temple, what—_what_ is that girl with curled hair?

The box was corded, the card nailed on. In half-an-hour the carrier was
one admires it intensely.
      When all of the house that was open to general inspection had
the town. Then Henchard himself went homeward, going so fast that by


Jordan. “I love New York on summer afternoons when everyone’s away.

      marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of

friend, the Archdeacon, will not permit me to leave him sooner. I shall
elected councillors of the ward. To the right sat old Michael Grimes,


“Was there anything found on him?” said Dorian, leaning forward and
_Freeman’s General_ and took charge of all the papers for the cemetery
from that which hardens it now while she is so vivaciously accosting
don’t they seem like home?”

      guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of her

anything about Mr Fitzpatrick. Her daughter had signed a contract for
identity.
as if she did not hear them, and continued her intermittent private

JANE EYRE
and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.
you ask me? This is not your writing?” And he held up his.
by one moving speck.
of my power?”
bush.”
      have just as much right to be asked as she has, and more too, for

Henry. I never talk during music—at least, during good music. If one
or Jane an occasional tap or push, just as she used to give me in
to meet her—but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on the train one
      If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection,

leading inhabitants walked Mr. Councillor Farfrae with Lucetta upon his
not like him. I know that perfectly well. Indeed, I should be sorry to
      so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly
meed his toil brings—the higher the honour. His, under such
“Why?”
Ere I permitted myself to request an explanation, I tied the string of
“I feel far away from her,” he said. “It’s hard to make her
“The master’s body?” roared the butler into the mouthpiece. “I’m
“Not a bit of it, my dear; I’m just a common man.”


I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most

better—their child, the innocent and helpless creature bestowed on
“You are to send in your name and your business,” she replied. She then
side. When I again unclosed my eyes, a loud bell was ringing; the girls
Here we are at your door. Let me come in for a moment. I have something
laughing and joking during the meal. Lizzie Fleming said Maria was sure
The Wonderful Wizard of Oz


the old strain, as in a musical fantasy the instrument fetches up the
      Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the
“I talked with Miss Baker,” I said after a moment. “I’m going to call
they imagined I could do anything. But it will take more than

      Brighton, with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but
wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man’s life.
“Are you trying to get inside me?” he asked.
Chapter 7
      The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling
thought more of her.
causes. The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
The Scarecrow looked at her reproachfully, and answered:


wife, before a witness, I’ll reveal our intimacy—in common fairness to
      me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The situation of

“Well then, Jane, call to aid your fancy:—suppose you were no longer a
“Then say it.”
      beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father. The ladies
      raptures of his wife.
than of intention, that episode, if known, was not the less likely to
“I would not—do anything against you at all!” stammered Elizabeth,
all were gone into the refectory to tea. I now ventured to descend: it


young ones’ breakfast out of the Thornfield, and the early bees do
feeling that to retain this under separation was better than to incur
“It takes Teddy to find out the really good things,” said Mr Browne

at figures—a rule o’ thumb sort of man. You are just the reverse—I can

rang the bell merrily; then Adèle (who had insisted on being one of her
is it not a duty to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting
master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a
      subject of discourse. In comparing her recollection of Pemberley
“What a beautiful room!” I exclaimed, as I looked round; for I had
      replied:
more remains to be mentioned—that no writings of mine, or trifling
      talking on the subject, to give greater—what shall I call it?
The politician looked at him keenly. “What change do you propose,
I wish to adopt her during my life, and bequeath her at my death
      had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your
She stood among the swaying crowd in the station at the North Wall. He

is better for people to keep away from Oz, unless they have business
French?’
really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the
fifty pounds, if they would make up the other fifty among them.”

answered her wise little remarks with curtly indifferent monosyllables,

Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, “When Dorothy
you remember all she has done and said to you! What a singularly deep
her to do anything against her will! I have lived with her, and know

The three men fell silent. The old man began to rake more cinders
funny fruits were going to fall into your hands.”
      vexations by dwelling on them. She was confident of having
where he gave her a room with a pretty bed in it. The sheets were made
concert: these were the only dissipations of his life.
don’t care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be
ruled the people who live in the North and South and East and West.
      at backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that
in his mind desecrated their memory. I did not give utterance to this
beggar-woman and her little boy—pale, ragged objects both—were coming
      inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her. Every
      irretrievable; that one false step involves her in endless ruin;
      last that she recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy
hollow or flaccid. Yellow crow’s feet would creep round the fading eyes
writing-table he scribbled a note to Lord Henry, asking him to send him
Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the
the impression of a man ever alert to greet a redeeming instinct in
think he was afraid they would dart down a side-street and out of his
stronger than he.”
      “When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean
“Neither do I.”

in.
they executed a recitative; where a tributary brook fell over a stone
      be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable
      told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley
“Well, suppose we take a plunge in the swimming pool? I haven’t made
lay close to the open country; not a hundred yards from a row of noble
Elizabeth was his at last and she was a girl of such good sense and

the world was counteracted by the centripetal influence of his love for
How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and walking
intelligent. It was an oval face with strongly marked features. The
of literature.”
      “I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,”
is for publication. Nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions.”
his mind yet more poisonously. He had learnt by personal inquiry at the
“That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now. I
fatal Rimoth-Gilead.

promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my
He bowed.
“Now—as soon as you like. I had a good mind to send to you to come to
England.”
noticed, and wondered where it led: thither I bent my steps. No
“I do,” said Farfrae.
or we fought a pitched battle on the grass. But, however well we
      “My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed.”
“I look as at a picture merely. But,” she went on, turning pleasantly
transfixed. Her own words greeted her in Henchard’s voice, like spirits
with me—and name your own terms. I’ll agree to ’em willingly and
of the verb _Etre_, and sketched my first cottage (whose walls,
a soul in each one of us. I know it.”
accomplishments. You are the woman he will adore, and we shall all
found is become a matter of serious urgency: advertisements have been
“And they were a German cardinal by the name of Dolling ... or Dowling
said he, looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance

father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts
have you shown to rooms where you may rest in comfort after your

strayed far from the village: it was quite out of sight. The very
Father Purdon developed the text with resonant assurance. It was one of
But as a neat patching up of things I see much good in it. When a man
had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and
      very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in his
publish the connection, he became as anxious to conceal it as myself.


in.
“All this ‘old sport’ business. Where’d you pick that up?”
a pale rose. As for her acting—well, you shall see her to-night. She is

“D’ye know what, Tom, has just occurred to me? You might join in and
      chance could there be of improvement? Catherine, weak-spirited,
mother’s death, I wash my hands of you: from the day her coffin is
a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town
the American army during the war.” As our credulity switched back to
question, and that I had indeed appeared as a beggar to her, I answered
chanced to be born of the same parents, I shall suffer you to fasten me
followed, and then a glee: a joyous conversational murmur filled up the
But he shook himself free of it with an effort of reason and continued
      of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances
time, and at last he laughed.
“Gone into my house?” And starting up Henchard added, “_My_ house of
traversed the snows with inconceivable speed. I know not whether the
hope—my love—my life!” broke in anguish from his lips. Then came a
floated near him. He had not intended to stay a moment because concerts
“Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well,” he answered bitterly.
experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves.
vigorous clapping came from the four young men in the doorway who had
The translation of a few pages of German occupied an hour; then I got
point before resuming their conversation in a subdued voice. The girl
      could justify the hopes of his sister. On this point she was soon
strap, and sent them back to their work, after which she sat down to
much as it is. But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once,
      “I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,” said Jane to her
cultivation. The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves
her as such: you should kiss her too.”
had lost her.

“And why is that?” asked the Scarecrow.
nations, and roamed over half the globe, while you have lived quietly
inkling of the business, found out that it was of an immoral tendency.
      good enough for a man on whom she had such anxious designs, or
      walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part


elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair
now and then, in tones of recklessness, “Only a fortnight more!”—“Only

“I am waiting, Basil,” said the young man in a hard clear voice.
      rejected many as deficient in size and importance.
and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your
him:
understanding and imperfect feelings, yet ever profoundly interesting:
hear two persons talking in the pantry. Then he recognised Freddy
again and then, fearing that diffidence was about to conquer him, he

a dream, in a prison, stretched on a wretched bed, surrounded by
on it for a while he strolled in that direction.
matched at almost any spot in any county in England at this time of the
without tears. What a glorious creature must he have been in the days
my brother and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a
      himself with a family where, to every other objection, would now


box, was netting with great industry between the hours which she
Cards! cards! The table was cleared. Villona returned quietly to his
“And you seem dead-alive and tired. Let me try to enliven you by some
involuntarily to his face; I could not keep their lids under control:
Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid

      to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they
cause of the tumult. “They shout,” I said, “because they

“Are you better now, sir?” said she.
      affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
      under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her.”
some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and

where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you
his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from

with an inner activity characterized Elizabeth-Jane at this period. She
and she thinks you have treated her with undue severity. You may have
the river bank, skirting the north-eastern limits of the town.
terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had time
A few sheep grazed thereabout, but these ran off when Henchard halted
further to express, “What the deuce is it to me whether Miss Eyre be
eat it; and I dared not allow them to remain fasting till dinner-time.”
“No, Bessie; I have only just finished dusting.”
that way.”
“Then, sir, listen. You were from home last night?”
And inside, as we wandered through Marie Antoinette music-rooms and
“He rode Mesrour (the black horse), did he not, when he went out? and
effect on his audience and continuing to shake his head to and fro. “I

quietly behind me.

But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay on

THE END
of the event which requires her appearance.”
      curtsey and hold out her hand to both.
      The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to

His hand, which had lain lifeless in Henchard’s, returned the latter’s
the trusser. He took the sailor’s notes and deliberately folded them,

will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.
above all, and the Tower famed in English history.
his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted
long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and
prospect of aid was visible. I should have longed rather to deviate to


it.
it was that, with his integrity and conscientiousness, he could see no
      He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good
“Can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage? I only
exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods. She either explains them
losers.
with what _is_.”
to read. The syllables of the word _Araby_ were called to me through


“No, no, Susan; you are not to go—you mistake me!” he said with kindly
side it was the unforced passion of youth. On Henchard’s the
“Come out, then, quietly.”
fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had
“‘Now I’ll make the eyes,’” said the farmer. So he painted my right
his former conviction, and said harshly—

myself more of an artist. It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn’t help
  Chapter 58
      this address. You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse,
origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances
Was Elizabeth-Jane to remain his by virtue of this hardy invention of a

         The peaks of glory to attain.
he bore him—for it was really love—had nothing in it that was not noble

      others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”
      This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent my sister’s having

Farfrae duly received the request to discontinue attentions to

Though haughty Hate should strike me down,
“And do you dream?” said the dæmon. “Do you think that I was then
about corruption. Now you shall look on it face to face.”
pretty bad, and I was wondering what you were going to do with your


      “She seems a very pleasant young woman,” said Bingley.
“Come in, come in,” implored Elizabeth; “and let me shut the window!”
could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish
      But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first
“Only I’m an old man now I’d change his tune for him. I’d take the
is hitting below the intellect.”
the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a
      much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of
mine and addressed me in French,
The son confirmed his father’s account, but when Daniel Nugent was
      certain—but I will venture to say that my investigation and

point to say:
fair, he would, when his hours of morning study were over, take his
Helier, and not in Bath.
touched and teased—this was where the fever was sustained and fed: _she
scorned him and his love, but he had not forgotten the words; and as
      Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with which

long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to
assuming that she was to be discharged on the instant she had resolved
with Madame Joubert: Miss Wilson was a poor sickly thing, lachrymose
      approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave
I set out; I walked fast, but not far: ere I had measured a quarter of
much trouble.
to come alone?”

      am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies
Another was the frequency of white aprons over dingy gowns among the
      Miss Bennet, “I beg your pardon, madam, for interrupting you, but

seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty, but must weep over his
      person more capable of giving you certain information on that
across me. And her voice—I never heard such a voice. It was very low at
“Oh, he is not doing so well as his mama could wish. He went to
      staircase, than she entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated
      “That is not very likely; our authority was too good.”
shall hate it no more. I did not like to put my hand into a hireling’s,
      sneer. “Excuse my interference—it was kindly meant.”
opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock. From the side where I



speculation he inspired that there were whispers about him from those
      think Mrs. Gardiner was so little to be trusted.”
suggestions kept wandering across my brain of reasons why I should quit
      and asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with
granted then—for the time. I will remand the order I despatched to my
I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes
piled-up bolsters and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the
As Elizabeth neither assented nor dissented Donald Farfrae began
      Eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object

paradise of peace, accustomed as I was to a life of ceaseless reprimand
“I don’t know,” answered Lord Henry. “I fancy that the boy will be well
      mountains? Oh! what hours of transport we shall spend! And when
“I thought you had left England.”
bear your shutting yourself up like this.”
well how to look: coin one of your wild, shy, provoking smiles; tell me

Before they went to see Glinda, however, they were taken to a room of

joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans. How they
Seventh?”

scintillated in his eyes, and strange shadows passed over his face. He
her charity appeals. I am sick of them. Why, the good woman thinks that
      was left to him _conditionally_ only.”

relish. It was his nature to be communicative; he liked to open to a
be the purport of my actions. Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery.
“O sir—Mr. Henchet! Didn’t ye know it? He’s just gone—about
a sharp instrument. He knew Corley would fail; he knew it was no go.
woman’s sperrit. I’d ha’ done it myself—od send if I wouldn’t, if a
in planning my departure—speed, secrecy: to secure these, I had to
remembrance of it. I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail
blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed.”
humbug from beginning to end. If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite
“No doubt, Christopher Coney, no doubt. And ’a must need such
to be.
Polly was a slim girl of nineteen; she had light soft hair and a small
“Well,” said Gabriel, “it’s partly to keep in touch with the languages
moment. “I am not at home to any one, Victor,” he said with a sigh. The

exertion amongst my scholars, an evening spent in drawing or reading
find her in an orchard in Verona.”
      by him, when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a


heroic and so martyr-like. St. John, no doubt, would have given the

      got by proxy. Even Elizabeth might have found some trial of her
corn; when they bent suddenly to the right into the Bristol Road, and

me, and said, “Good night, Miss Jane.” When thus gentle, Bessie seemed
      with—‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’—and I shall keep
Without replying Charl and his comrade Joe rose, and receiving a
I’m not quite up to it.”
“Be quiet, sir!” said the Princess. “Can’t you see these are strangers,
were perfect and when he smiled you caught a glimpse of a row of


judged it to be the right moment, Mrs Mooney intervened. She dealt with

contentment with a humble lot, and justified the vocation even of
They went out into the flickering, wind-blown sunlight and strolled
tarry so long!”
called him “father” just as before. Newson, then, had not even yet
the same place, who was much admired for her beauty a season or two ago
      continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the


he would not stick at trifles.
could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?”

      always been disposed to like him, she could not think without
“And Mrs. Reed?”

This was a demoniac laugh—low, suppressed, and deep—uttered, as it
letter into the post-office; I saw it as I walked fast down-hill all
the hot reeking public-house. He had lost his reputation as a strong
It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent. For some
idea!” I thought with glee. “I see I have the means of fretting him out
A wee be—re the s—n w—nt d—n,
      falsehood, though I would not injure him so much as to suppose
himself and coming late to his work. His anxious will was to be among
In the middle of the room was a small table on which papers were
it makes one unselfish. And unselfish people are colourless. They lack
      short pause added:
      She is a very great favourite with some ladies of my
“Is he an able man, then?”

      “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the
laid her down—for I raised her and supported her on my arm while she
who so pleasing, thrifty, and satisfactory in every way as
pointed upwards interrogatively and, on my aunt’s nodding, proceeded to
      brother is happy with me, they will learn to be contented, and we
handful and ate them with the bread. My hunger, sharp before, was, if
CHAPTER XXXVII
“Sibyl, you are mad about him.”


his monotonous voice. I continued to gaze towards the foot of the
      after I am gone.”
always tied round his great toe and left hanging out the window for

grassy floor. Among the odds and ends he discerned a little shining

      from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her


one of his poor etiolated arms, feeble as the wing of a chicken in the
these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and
themselves together amid much laughter. They drove by the crowd,
      was by no means so faulty, nor Wickham’s so amiable, as they had
“Something curious about that oven, ma’am!” he observed advancing,
entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants
Hallward glanced round him with a puzzled expression. The room looked


      Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her
      “I see your design, Bingley,” said his friend. “You dislike an
dreadful people you associate with. Don’t shrug your shoulders like
me: it was an inclement day for outdoor exercise; not positively rainy,
shall not be left desolate, so long as I live.”
“No; there was nothing else to see. Why do you ask? But you mustn’t
corded and locked as they had been prepared for the bridal tour. What


she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much

“It must make them very unhappy afterwards.”

      was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another
him?—I mean of the other matter—not of ours.”
too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We
by Charlotte Brontë

to duty and order; I was quiet; I believed I was content: to the eyes
courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose
“It was a fairy, and come from Elf-land, it said; and its errand was to


locked myself in; fell on my knees; and prayed in my way—a different
      “Mr. Darcy is all politeness,” said Elizabeth, smiling.
      “And have you heard from him often?”

Henry over the heavy clusters of purple-lipped irises that stood in the

look for him.... And what do you think but there he was, sitting up by
Nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous

times with a severe eye, but seldom addressed me: since my illness, she
together. They were both well dressed, stout and complacent and they
glancing on marble hearth and brass fire-irons, and revealing purple
But delirium passes. He echoed her phrase, applying it to himself:
speak, at an inconceivable pitch of intensity. Now, in the reaction,
turn their backs to seek the barn than he tossed his head and decided
clumsy in movement. He was not so finely bred as his sister. One would
“Well!... That takes the biscuit!”

I was dumb still. He bent his head a little towards me, and with a
an erect carriage, which she accentuated by throwing her body backward
forwards on the pavement; the shutters of the glass door were closed; I
tertiary hue which comes, but cannot be made—a hue neither tawny,
      domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain her
      And she rose as she spoke. Lady Catherine rose also, and they

Happy at Moor House I was, and hard I worked; and so did Hannah: she
crunching of wheels and a splashing tramp of horse-hoofs became audible
“And what if I have?” answered Henchard sternly.
pardon, Basil, but I didn’t know you had any one with you.”

“Well, don’t forsake the machine for us,” and went indoors with her
lit streets, past gaunt, black-shadowed archways and evil-looking
had any such adventure before and neither was conscious of any
taken out under any circumstances—and this was strange, because the
over.
which he saw for miles. His lips twitched, and he seemed to compress
Christmas card every year.”

all people in the world the English have the least sense of the beauty
priest whose yellowing photograph hung on the wall above the broken
      aunt, that I have never been much in love; for had I really
forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me—my more than
      her, in a family so deranged, a father absent, a mother incapable
A fat brown goose lay at one end of the table and at the other end, on

“I’m sorry to leave ye, Nelly,” said the young man with emotion. “But,
talking should be dangerous, assuring her there was plenty of time to
“When is she Sibyl Vane?”
me.”
growed, so they say, till the dough ran all over the ovens like
a time.”

      circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to
been pretty; but, for aught I know, she may possess originality and
green and strong! He made me love him without looking at me.
interested in him, although they have had very little communication
“Why didn’t you walk around the hole?” asked the Tin Woodman.
countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer
ignorance that leads to such words. He’s a simple home-spun man, that
biscuits lay bleaching. We bought some biscuits and chocolate which we
Mr Browne took another sip of his whisky and said, with sidling
had anything to do with the young man. She did not enlighten him, and
Nothing moved Henchard like an old melody. He sank back. “No; I can’t
you have some sense.”
carriage roll through. I watched it ascending the drive with
“So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw that

other person’s strength: if no one can be found willing to burden her
      “You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.”

keenness and reserve was considerably more calculated to embarrass than
say he had gone to—where?—Casterbridge—yes—to Casterbridge, said he.
So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
“Why don’t you run and jump?” asked the Scarecrow.
Lord Henry had not yet come in. He was always late on principle, his
blood—no, nor of brine: my harvest must be in smiles, in endearments,
notion of the importance twenty thousand pounds would give you; of the
she had had, were definitely gone.
under-nurserymaid, to tidy the room, dust the chairs, &c.). Having
my heart. I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my
      The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but

and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him? Could it be
      trifling colds. She will be taken good care of. As long as she
“I certainly am awfully glad to see you again.”

to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table.
spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes. He had taken
thought you must have some curious romance on hand. You have; but it is
     In palace, cabin or in cot
you be this mistress?”
proposing to accompany abroad a single man of mine. I proved it to you
      is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great
of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides


      sense of her situation by the voice of her companion, who, in a
“That is proof that he is sharp,” remarked the Lion.

and a collar for the dog, and one of those cute little ashtrays where
simple as Scripture history. Now then, stand up, Susan, and show
returned to his old companions and habits. His head was not strong: the

again along the way by which he had arrived. Farfrae should at all


winter-time one feels dreary quite alone in the best quarters. I say
      and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin
Susan Henchard’s husband—in law, at least—sat before them, matured in
recognized the smiling countenance of the fat woman who had asked for
transparencies of her eyelids and nostrils and set fire on her lips.
      to my conversation with Colonel Forster?”
were blue and grey and even black. The only sailor whose eyes could
“Yes, sir.”
or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go have never
“Because I was poor, and burdensome, and she disliked me.”
over ere he moved in the matter. The time having come he reflected.

the fire, rubbing his hands as if he intended to produce a spark from
him.
CHAPTER I.

rejoinder, which, if not blunt, is at least brusque. What do you mean
look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come
its sort so near the centre of the town. It had, in the first place,
believe; and I believe the Gospel. You missed your epithet. I am not a
fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife. I rushed towards
assure you, I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility that was
      great deal more than you did in your last. I thank you, again and
way, broke down entirely and resorted to flank attacks—at intervals


      attended to the carriage by Mr. Collins, and as they walked down
inward contempt masters me. I never loved, I never esteemed, I did not
have deceived me so—so bitterly deceived me! You persuaded me that my
summer-cloud does to the electric death-spark hid in its womb. Finally,


was Dorian himself. But who had done it? He seemed to recognize his own
      bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late

_minois chiffoné_: both sisters were fair as lilies.
“I have intimated my view of the case: I am incapable of taking any
Her quiet eye discerned that Henchard’s tigerish affection for the
rather intemperate in her habits.
had taken before, and all were greatly surprised when they looked about
like it that I went forward and said—“Pilot,” and the thing got up and

clatter of plates and knives. Those who still remained in the

fixed his blue pictorial-looking eyes full on me. There was an
had no relations.”
suggested the thought that Hope traversed them at night, and left each
      despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not
“From the Land of Oz,” said Dorothy gravely. “And here is Toto, too.

      daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour. Bingley

“If we leave her here she will die,” said the Lion. “The smell of the
As our mutual happiness (_i.e._, Diana’s, Mary’s, and mine) settled

“Marmion” it was), St. John stooped to examine my drawing. His tall
      entered their room, and from all the others when they sat down to

took part in the games. The arena was still smooth and circular, as if
Fairfax a thankfulness for her kindness, and a pleasure in her society
on a spree and make a fool of myself, but I always come back, and in
      have not an excellent library.”
“It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested

“Ye see, Mr. Farfrae,” gibbered Abel with a resigned smile of terror,
      picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure
it was quite true what Lucetta had said, that the curious double
      still better, and say nothing of the bad—belongs to you alone.
forgotten you since: other ideas have driven yours from my head; but
to do something for them.”


“dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel mother! Who that had
      “I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth,” said her uncle,
softly, unclosed the staircase door with as little noise as possible,
As blind as eagerly.
“Wha’?”
willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
voiceless grief of my Elizabeth. This also was my doing! And my


had he married the eyes in the photograph?
outward-bound steamer that was coaling. The slimy pavement looked like
The gaiety jarred upon Henchard’s spirits; and he could not quite
the materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some
were grown up enough, and even some of Mary Jane’s pupils too. Never
hand that was passed through the basket strap. Whether this apparent
Again I paused; then bunglingly enounced—

      port wine, who followed them into the room.
not to be used: violent, unfeminine, and untrue. They betray an
would be pleased to have his company. So the Tin Woodman shouldered his
the house for you, especially with this rain and wind.”
      who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your
“Yes. You know what I think of you.”
one within the other, the little scoops, like revolving salt-spoons,
not the man who had destroyed her life.
weighing of both, to form an equitable judgment. Now I saw no bad. The
forking highway which skirted the north of Egdon Heath. Into this road
the first of May: I stepped in there before going up to the hall. It
whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the
to the claim of abstract justice, I recognised a soul that revelled in
“What shall we do?” asked Dorothy despairingly.
brakes on my desires, and I knew that first I had to get myself

      Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the
across the ditch again.
“Ah! sir, she sees you!” exclaimed Grace: “you’d better not stay.”
be wretched. From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much
want sacrifice, sorrow, dissolution—such is not my taste. I wish to
“But think again! Do consider——”
coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair
said Solomon. “There was a man dropped down dead yesterday, not so very
the hill.
      figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of his asserting
He said this, in his peculiar, subdued, yet emphatic voice; looking,
So he sprang into the water, and the Tin Woodman caught fast hold of
instinctively and without hesitation. But she and Tom had gone away
give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks,
appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore
was a terrible consumption of nuts going on.”
desirous of information and disposed for improvement—with whom I passed
told him that it was absurd—that I knew you thoroughly and that you
at herself that he looked, to Elizabeth-Jane’s half-conscious,
to do all in their power for Dorothy, who had set them free from
      wilderness on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a
      other objects. She soon learnt that they were indebted for their
people gazed upon it with much curiosity. The Tin Woodman had chopped a
departed—and rise before me in this chamber. I wiped my tears and
“Have you not lately renewed your promise?” said the younger with quiet

an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the
      “Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I
door.
      should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect something, and
the wise directions outside her letter this pain would have been spared
Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs. The
child makes a house alive all at once; and now you are here I shall be
like a spit into the moist and misty lowland. Much that was sad, much
“I’ve got something to tell you, old sport—” began Gatsby. But Daisy
      Netherfield must give way.
innocent maiden had thus grown up in the belief that the relations
audacious declaration, she ran nimbly up the stair, swept me like a
silence had fallen within the house too.
the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what
“Goloshes, Julia!” exclaimed her sister. “Goodness me, don’t you know
      though not in principle. As a child I was taught what was
abhor the last: with this creed revenge never worries my heart,
      “My aunt,” she continued, “is going to-morrow into that part of
and let’s make a blaze—there’s nothing I hate like a black grate, even

an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of
could nowhere find you, you must be dead. Late that night—perhaps it
He got up, his eyes still flashing between Gatsby and his wife. No one
too large to be well looked after by myself alone, I have advertised
with his coat sleeve.

fearing him (though in truth her inconsequent passion for another man


me go, mademoiselle.”
were several patches on him, but the tinsmiths did a good job, and as
stood open; I stepped over the threshold. It was a fine autumn morning;
      they were handsome, where they had been educated, what carriage

      their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage—the difference, the
      their condition.”

pleasure.
her eye lustre; she had nothing to say, and having once taken her seat,

“The name of the old man was De Lacey. He was descended from a good
      steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at
“Oh, St. John!” I cried, “have some mercy!”
      Pemberley. But, perhaps he could not in her mother’s presence be

the road to Thornfield, I felt like the messenger-pigeon flying home.
columnar trunk, dense summer foliage—no opening anywhere.
“That is true,” agreed the Woodman. “My axe may be of service to her;
“Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger,” murmured Lord Henry.
into order, and comparative silence quelled the Babel clamour of
      rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were
bee flew away. He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian

“I saw you by now in Corn Street—Mr. Grower spoke to ’ee?”
“Why?” asked the girl.
have not a legitimate obstacle to contend with; some affairs settled, a
Gateshead and its daily luxuries.
      an interest in him?”
man ever loved another as I did thee at one time.... And now—though I

“Not Gatsby,” I said shortly.
elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the _yotl_-bells
narrow; then a firm chin, with a decided cleft down the middle of it:
      lane, she then began it. It was dated from Rosings, at eight
      of the door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the
      then took a large house in Edward-street, and has since
strong workings in the features, and strange gleams in the eyes.

when I am only induced by reason and virtue.
      “Oh! my dear Lydia,” she cried, “when shall we meet again?”
“Do you suppose I eat like an ogre or a ghoul, that you dread being the
rooted shyly into her mother’s dress.

Thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at
scrutiny of the house, as though my presence marred the sacredness of



along the Wharf Road until we came to the ships, then to cross in the
careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept
fortunate business transaction put him on good terms with everybody,
over Lucetta, who remained convulsed on the carpet in the paroxysms of
      “Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a
This was the climax. A pang of exquisite suffering—a throe of true
“It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which
      whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the
      courage to speak of it.

possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually
to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit. It was
job?”

observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they

long, vacant room; she brought my coffee and bread.
      had the misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal

      and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him
“Jane, come and look at this fellow.”
ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been perfectly audible to
      extremely dull to a young lady like yourself; but I hope you will
eye;—What! you revert to Mr. Rochester as a model! Order! No snivel!—no
“Poor fool!” said Henchard with fond savagery, holding out the note.
know: you could go with me to Mr. Grower and just let me speak to ’ee
across the bay.
I answered him by assuming it: to refuse would, I felt, have been
convoy from the onslaught of Apollyon. His is the exaction of the
provincial accent:
“Is she game for that?” asked Lenehan dubiously. “You can never know
      attempting to laugh without a subject. Mr. Darcy may hug
“What day would suit you?”
“‘Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but
“I keep it always full of interesting people, night and day. People
we had dined that June night three months before, I came to a small
to be starting home.”
      money as a mere trifle, and begged that she would not make
      feelings. She was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his
days the harvesters worked by moonlight. Hence to-night the
killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don’t even
      “There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are
When I got there, I was forced to sit to rest me under the hedge; and
tossed our books up to the ceiling, and played a charivari with the
      “I wish it may.”
of the best connected and most estimable residents in S——, grandson and
Eliza and Georgiana? Won’t I tell mama? but first—”
“Oh, no,” returned the soldier; “I have never seen him. But I spoke to
“Well then, sir, have the goodness to gratify my curiosity, which is
      knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his
the sum Mrs. Poole receives. And she is laying by: she goes every
As though they cared!

fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was



is, as you believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the
      expected to find it; not equal to Lydia’s for him. She had
“That is _my wife_,” said he. “Such is the sole conjugal embrace I am
“He is not a gentleman, Mother, and I hate the way he talks to me,”
Elizabeth-Jane? Apart from her personal recommendations a
roof. I know all your sisters have done for me since—for I have not
the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him.
fragrant as groves between the tropics, now spread, waste, wild, and

      overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation; and, after a
      Bennet’s curiosity; and Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on
      “Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on
Then he looked at Lord Henry. “Dorian Gray is my dearest friend,” he
at that time. Coming out she paused to look for a moment at the bull,

from her well-loved eyes. Sometimes too, he stared around at his
unfolded five crisp pieces of paper, and threw them down upon the
him: there was no passion in them, no rapture. He thought of what
      “Kitty has no discretion in her coughs,” said her father; “she
“Let me think of it alone,” the girl quickly replied, corking up the
I maintained a grave silence for some minutes.
Frankenstein would yet have lived.”

“Thank you for those new books, Mr. Farfrae,” she added shyly. “I
they’ll throw everything overboard and have intermarriage between
      In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library,

“I want you to beware of him.”
but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains. I
gathered, ere long, that he had there first seen and become acquainted

of _Plutarch’s Lives_, and the _Sorrows of Werter_. The

      there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by

“No.”
day.


and half on the lawns. I was happier on the lawns because I had on
everything to me in life. Night after night I go to see her play. One


see my native land, perhaps, for many years. I am, however, in good
Chapter VIII

blue crêpe-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty, but there
      the Parsonage. Are you going much farther?”
loudly. Then he looked thoughtfully before him and said in a calmer

blunder more than I now rue mine. Will you ever forgive me?”
furred, and his head covered by a cap of seal-skin, which, though the
      discrimination; for it was plain that he was that moment
MICHAEL HENCHARD’S WILL.
about with young ivy sprays. I examined, too, in thought, the

“Did you notice Daisy’s face when that girl asked her to put her under
      saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other
if they did not want him; her curtains seem to hang slily, as if they
have a right to demand it back.”
had obviously not heard anything to her advantage: and it seemed to me,
over the leaves.
“Nothing, indeed,” thought I, as I struggled to repress a sob, and

“No; but I can scarcely see what Mr. Rochester has to do with the theme

      unaware;—to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable
      evident admiration of her, of her former favourite George
tale, and your looks remind me to proceed.

thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies. Hall described

charmed.
darkness and there was a stir and bustle among the stars. Out of the
destroyed,” said the girl.

drift of your revenge. The very thought of it crushes me! Have pity on
bite him.
I told her not to mind his badinage; and she, on her part, evinced a
generous man. What a gentleman he is, isn’t he? and how his diamond
know who I was before he would give his name.
form conjured up by my fancy. After having landed, they proceeded to
“Who’s this?”
chair—to wait on me as a kind little nurse (for you have an
white-whiskered creature who, like so many of his class, was under the
there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.’
your new pupil this morning?”

      with ease, cannot write ill.”
“Come,” said Longways; “let the young man draw onward with his ballet,
accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence
explained to him that wheel and car were no longer joined by any

followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion.
already gone away. He would go and look.
called her “The Ghost.” Sometimes Henchard overheard this epithet when
This time she was determined not to be denied admittance, and made her

“Alas! yes: the more’s the pity! Nothing could be more becoming to your
the narrow ledge; I hushed the scared infant in my lap: you turned an
doubtless, in producing that restless, excited mood which hurried me
      the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a
said drily, “This is a very good opportunity for me to ask you to name
down to his ordinary everyday appearance, he entered the inn door.
going up and down the stairs. His courage failed him; to enter
      is come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Sarah, come
Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour’s cast-off clothes.

“No, no!” he responded shortly and somewhat testily.
anything. What is the number of your sister’s box?”

high delight and refreshment of the whole school. The order was now
Dorothy looked at him in amazement, and so did the Scarecrow, while

“Well, Captain Newson, I will be glad to see ye here every day now,
lock in desperate effort. Steps came running along the outer passage;
      give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold
the ward but, as the weather was inclement and his boots let in the



now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league;
“Go and look once more; and then we will get home.”
comprehend better.”
      embarrassed again by his coming. I am glad he dines here on
      representing to her the strength of that attachment which, in
      half a song, and then talked, as before, to her other nephew;
when every glance in the glass showed her such a flush of loveliness),
“It’s a curious thing,” said Mr Cunningham, “about the Jesuit Order.


divert my thoughts, which are galled with dwelling on one
thought she could perceive no great personal difference between being
importance.
      “I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of
      “No—I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.”
“Yes, sir.”
before a mirror. But there was a change in Gatsby that was simply
    are of the same mind, and that you will take steps to this end. As,

myself, and I began to play in tournaments, so I didn’t see Daisy very

      taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of England;

      dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he
crushed her? Consider that eye: consider the resolute, wild, free thing
was fading from the leaf, when something came up the path and stopped
      amiable. You do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain
powers, and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were
divers parchments, her jewel-casket, and a miniature of her deceased
These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my

time; for the catastrophe which drove me from a house I had found a

This seemed such a melancholy prospect that Elizabeth-Jane breathed a
“Dorian!”
      have parted with you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.”

playing. She knew the air. Strange that it should come that very night
      any of the family.

      younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects
school was generally made in the course of her morning ride. She would
resolution. I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my
a curious machine.”

time elapsed. I grew weary: it was cold, in spite of the cloak; and


“Very well. Had you seen him lately?”
      disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment
He had deigned an explanation, almost an apology, and I did not feel
glasses: then he touched his friend’s glass lightly and reciprocated

Mary was too slim for her height, but Blanche was moulded like a Dian.
      her concern thereupon, he assured her with much earnest gravity
social law came that flower of Nature, Elizabeth. Part of his wish to
for his health. He had a very good voice, poor Michael Furey.”
While this strange dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd rapidly
“Well what is it?”
It was the first of June; yet the morning was overcast and chilly: rain
here, I assure you,” he observed, as he warmed his hands over the
“How are you to-night, Helen? Have you coughed much to-day?”
“Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Who was it fainted, Tom?”
      clergyman. I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be
mercenary, heartless, and senseless, it was rather calculated to weary
to importune her? A neighbour or two came in; my chair was evidently
“Witness of my marriage—Mr. Grower was!”


towards Dublin. Beyond the river he saw a goods train winding out of
child, but he had left her not long ago in perfect health; and
      all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.
us quickly and then continued his way. We followed him with our eyes

sophisticated!”
each other by our first names) reappeared, company commenced to arrive
      those subjects that must deaden them more. Mr. Darcy’s behaviour


were sad or fierce; but I could not remember the time when it had been
their mother was not present. She would be sure to make a scene, and he
      behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.”
into the Seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the


“Then commit them over again,” he said gravely. “To get back one’s
These well-intentioned ones would have been surprised had they known


The head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand.
poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite
favorite color.
grown up and she knew that he would walk to the end of Thomas Street

fury; I must elude his sorrow: I retired to the door.
Gateshead and wanted to see you; Missis said you were at school fifty
had fought, and the first victory I had gained: I stood awhile on the
perch his eyes could sweep the roofs round about, the upper parts of

      towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of
and volunteered to carry it to Hay; the distance, two miles, would be a

“God forbid,” said Mr Cunningham.

I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my
these sounds and was able to pronounce them. I distinguished several other
you cannot long be content to pass your leisure in solitude, and to
enchanted my attention.
      only sixteen last June. My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter,

Hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and aging face on
“See there.”

other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my


matter-of-fact as it could ever be.



your short frocks.”


XIII.
away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker.”


      away.
wet Sunday, an uncouth Christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly
ignorance, understood something mild, which time and care would be sure
      _little_, she might have fancied too _much_.
moment I thought of following you there. They gave the address in the

could see the title—it was “Rasselas;” a name that struck me as
my mantle about me, and sheltering my hands in my muff, I did not feel
“I suppose there are,” returned the Lion, “but I do not see any of them
     _R. I. P._
“Indeed,” cried Rosamond, “she is clever enough to be a governess in a
      “Upon my word! Well, that was very decided indeed—that does seem
True, reader; and I knew and felt this: and though I am a defective
greeted her ears from the front of the settle, in a melody and accent
the furies possessed me as I concluded, and rage choked my utterance.
And it was from Cody that he inherited money—a legacy of twenty-five
“Where is God? What is God?”

like Miss Georgiana would be more moving in the same condition.”
only by a vague, luminous haze, knew the presence of a moon. I longed
dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I gained a clear
the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had
it mechanically. I sought the key of the side-door in the kitchen; I


“You will write to me if you want anything, won’t you?” said Dorian,
no further explanation. Briggs, Wood, Mason, I invite you all to come
      retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child,

At other times they remembered his good points.
“And the _artistes_!” said Mrs Kearney. “Of course they are doing their
      heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
“O, it’s just a retreat, you know,” said Mr Cunningham. “Father Purdon

      from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge, where he
and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild
that she rolled over upon the grass several times before she knew where
of the bank retired. And still every morning he went into the city by
clotted blood and a minute piece of the tongue seemed to have been
got him to make the tour of the house. He just looked in at the doors I
brains in your head you would be as good a man as any of them, and a
glance on my sufferings—think of me.”

Weydon-Priors Fair, long years before. The amends he had made in after
cheerful hearth when he came in: yes, the fire had been kindled some
resolutions of man. These feelings are transitory; each day of
I should have been afraid to touch a horse when alone, but when told to
what he said went to corroborate my account. Miss Temple, having
THE BOARDING HOUSE
not. Perhaps you cannot talk now?”
Two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman’s sodden eyes, then
      marriage been exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy
I was moved. I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences
In a few minutes he emerged, wearing, to her surprise, a brilliant
and claims of little people, in pursuing his own large views. It is
      “And so was I.”
“Whether you found any one you liked: whether you asked her to marry
make it do. He further gave me leave to get into the inside, as the

that she had only one child to look after. She remembered the phrase.
interested in the story.



Hill. He’d of helped build up the country.”

half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time. I had left my
“Est-ce que ma robe va bien?” cried she, bounding forwards; “et mes
his mind seemed to raise around him. Casterbridge had
failed to take advantage of her guardian’s temporary lapses; once to
      that place, they removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the

came up to her, feeling rather bruised and sore, and said, “It is
“You’re acting like a little boy,” I broke out impatiently. “Not only
coolly: “He’s the man who fixed the World’s Series back in 1919.”
by her oral oddities: hard-featured and staid, she had no point to
places that rented for twelve or fifteen thousand a season. The one on

      natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than
that house no more. Apart from her estimate of the propriety of
“Do you, then, really return?”
Wondering, and of my wonder finding no end, I complied.

Michaelis and this man reached her first, but when they had torn open
remarks. As these had not been well received he had desisted. Even he
Lenehan laughed again, noiselessly.
star. Well, you too have power over me, and may injure me: yet I dare
destined to swallow it; from the van of the procession, the tall girls
      “Next time you call,” said she, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”
      that spoke particular regard. Nothing occurred between them that
guides me. There is no merit in such goodness.”
“I left Lowood nearly a year since to become a private governess. I
fate, had now but to decay quietly, and mingle in peace with the soil
world! I like a fellow to talk to. Now come along and hae some supper,
too soon.”
horrible call:
all-night restaurant, approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a
“Here! here!” was shouted in return. “Be composed, all of you: I’m
“Does he?”
sobbing grew less and less; and tears of remorse started to his eyes.

      incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the

logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to
sun hastens to its setting. The last letter I received from him drew
“Good idea,” said Mr Power. “The four of us together.”
forward, I looked at it, and saw a gem I had seen a hundred times
      “He is certainly a good brother,” said Elizabeth, as she walked
think that’s sentimental, but I mean it—to the bitter end.”
“Is she from New York?” I asked quickly.
for, too late! I could not eat the tart; and the plumage of the bird,
      merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and
roguery, as the Casterbridge toss-pots had done; and rightly not—there
like crickets on the grass, rose through the hot twilight:
      her feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and

He met her again a few weeks afterwards at a concert in Earlsfort
am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious
so much to be done.”
      “No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise.”
displeasure, and one of them, the stout one, whispered—
position, tale. She shook her head, she “was sorry she could give me no

      months.”

understand how it was that everything had gone from me. I thought that
front right fender needed repair.
“I read somewhere that the sun’s getting hotter every year,” said Tom
      Rendered spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours,

done me at that time to have been tossed in the storms of an uncertain
For the evening reading before prayers, he selected the twenty-first

together. A wonderful skill in netting of all sorts—acquired in
Though it was now dark, I knew he was awake; because I heard him
him.”
nephew and three nieces of our uncle, will give five thousand to each?
forgotten their names—Jaqueline, I think, or else Consuela, or Gloria
and vivid. I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of
“Something of a load to carry, sir,” gasped the little man when they
eyes. She was a big woman, and had long black hair: we could see it
“Never mind,” said Henchard drily. “The fact is they are letters


what I was doing. My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear, and I
      pleased that he explained himself at all, or offended that his
“Mr. Rochester, I have just discovered the sun is far declined from its
bells of George’s Church had stopped ringing. It was seventeen minutes
In the prayer following the chapter, all his energy gathered—all his

Henchard looked at it carelessly, unfolded it with one hand, and
“I’d a little rather not be the polo player,” said Tom pleasantly,
and women were clustering in broken groups round their doors. From some
the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms. Farewell,

“Full of courage,” replied the Lion, who went joyfully back to his
green velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves,
A pale oval face came forward into the light. The arch of its fair

and drawn breath, she went on thus—
bright but antipathetic.
“And you would thrust on me a wife?”
told his own sin. His sin? He shrugged his shoulders. The death of
“A great deal: you are good to those who are good to you. It is all I
indiscretion, but with a kind of innate sympathy; not the less

new-comer and from time to time, wearily also, at the sky. His harp,
asked myself; “I want to commence my packing.” The dinner-bell rang,
bright green, and the heavy-barred, small-paned Georgian sash windows
beings. Now all was blasted; instead of that serenity of conscience

“I can but die,” I said, “and I believe in God. Let me try to wait His
      strong an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride—his



in the same mind?”
words I was satisfied, happy; repeat them, if you can, repeat them
“Whenever you feel like criticizing anyone,” he told me, “just
sentiment—Casterbridge had romance; but this stranger’s sentiment was
disobey. Yet when she died! Nay, then I was not miserable. I had
heart for the re-establishment of this tenderest human tie had been
We returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon: the peasants were
while, and were only come now to stay a few weeks on account of their
      observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the
      Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another
conversation.
 Chapter XXIII. Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish
doubt me,” he added. “I can keep my word.”
“To be sure, to be sure, how that fellow does draw me!” he had said to
      indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and in spite of her
will; for hers, in another way, was as strong), exclaimed—
Longways, Christopher Coney, Buzzford, and the rest of that fraternity,
him—its peaceful enjoyments no charm. Literally, he lived only to
sad childhood. Exhausted by emotion, my language was more subdued than
the house at eleven. No one had seen him come in again. Most of the

only one way left to destroy Dorothy and her friends.
where the Henchard family of three had once walked along, two persons
they had been. The stalls of tailors, hosiers, coopers, linen-drapers,
gave an involuntary sigh; his gripe was painful, and my over-taxed
      had continually been fluctuating but never without an object. The
murder had been simply the madness of a moment. As for Alan Campbell,
“We’re tolerable, sir, I thank you,” replied Grace, lifting the boiling
strongly over us. Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we
doing.
shoulder.
the vat’s black, dripping, sloping sides. It was an extraordinary
labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an unremitting attention
“How kind and generous you are! every one else believes in her guilt,
behind. Yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue.
      began. But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his
the margin of the pool. She started up, and hastened back to his side.
vicious and base? He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil
of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of

Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva. He was a boy of singular


was quite likely to fall. If she saw me out of the corner of her eyes
despair, were my near kinswomen; and the young and stately gentleman
and all my acquaintance with him was confined to an occasional
magnificent, the style of the oratory. And his voice! God! hadn’t he a
      had ever suggested it before, but they felt that there was no
gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons, and hissing into my
“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not
“You need fear your enemy no longer.”
spoilt. She was hasty, but good-humoured; vain (she could not help it,
fifty yards without speaking. Then Dorian looked at Lord Henry and
the dim light afforded of Henchard’s whereabouts by the furmity woman.
as a husband than she had at first thought him to be.”
While Gabriel and Miss Daly exchanged plates of goose and plates of ham
direct question as to where he really was.
strangely over the doors of a great cabinet opposite—whose front,
      she entertained a hope of Wickham’s meaning to marry her. No one
had forgotten to tell my Finn to come back, so I drove into West Egg
the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie
them to pause.
TO
and satisfy my vengeance in his death. And do I dare to ask of you to
would glow, and his marble-seeming features, though they refused to
“I hope he’ll look smart about it if he means business,” said Mr
tell them and he was always sure to be on to a good thing—that is to
mooning and spooning about it. I mean to marry money. She’ll have a
      inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting to my
sofa over the perusal of a novel; Eliza was gone to attend a

“I have my own theory about it,” he said. “I think it was one of those
Mooney did not intervene. Polly began to grow a little strange in her
financial condition had constrained him to tie himself to second-class
“My first aim will be to _clean down_ (do you comprehend the full force
sweet lady, that you should believe your Justine, whom your blessed
disk. She broke forth as never moon yet burst from cloud: a hand first
rather than a comical thing; that though one could be gay on occasion,
“My God, I believe the man’s coming,” said Tom. “Doesn’t he know she

      arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of
while at her request I remained watchfully in the garden. “In case
called out Gabriel from the dark.

      and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it! But I wonder


were hard to find.
through them into the house.
      ladies that I come prepared to admire them. At present I will not


a clattering tumble, arrested my attention. Man and horse were down;
little change.
me, or Providence has checked me,—perhaps the last. I am little better
“That was too bad,” said Dorothy, “but really I think we were lucky in
room with the child in his arms. It began to sob piteously, losing its
When the Scarecrow had bowed, as prettily as his straw stuffing would
His vagrant children beg their bread
“Maybe so,” said Mr Browne. “But I may tell you I doubt it strongly.”
      mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of
fireside.
obliged to go out into the courtyard and hold it in the sun till it
he expects to have things managed in conformity to them.”

“Have you seen much society?”

“Day set on Norham’s castled steep,
A face without a heart.”
gi’e it head-room, we don’t, such as that. The only reason why I can
“I don’t care about it, mother; you may please yourself: but I ought to
He glanced about as if in search of something. “What are you looking
a new series of whispers, that he might as well buy me a gold gown and
he told her stories of the terrible Patagonians. He had fallen on his
his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.
or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for
bear on the lives of the adjoining residents. Farmers, merchants,

      in a rational manner.”
      “If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at
he had thought of peering behind the screen. The man was quite

short, with a little cry of surprise.
“I don’t dislike you, Miss; I believe I am fonder of you than of all
to Canada where they had lived several years without any great worldly
When these thoughts possessed me, I would not quit Henry for a moment,
      _our_ first effusions be less insupportable than those of the
black bees came flying toward her.
bed, which with its drawn curtains concealed a considerable portion of
as cut. This wound was not done with a knife: there have been teeth
“Your own way—with the husband you have chosen.”

      remembrance gives you pleasure.”
“Yes; and I will do it now;” and having directed him to the servants’
“There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who
      has been effectual; and though I certainly should be a more
Elizabeth felt quite sick at heart on thinking of what this _might_
me would, I begin to think, be almost equivalent to committing suicide.
Would Corley do a thing like that? He lit his last cigarette and began
not here; nothing sustained me; left to myself I abandoned myself, and
Chapter 14
passionate bundle, “here they be. That ever I should see ’em again! I

on this step answering my end: I felt sure it would elicit an early

went over to the table and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had
book he mentioned so that in the end he said:


      Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the
In another corner of the room were Mrs Kearney and her husband, Mr
“But we heard it,” insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening up again
      excuse me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not
“Well, goodbye.”
“Yes; just so, in _your_ circumstances: but find me another precisely

combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness
supper is on the tray? If it is you can take it up to him. The front

[# 42671 ]


by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the

conceited as to misunderstand my meaning. I say again, I will be your
Farfrae’s words to his landlady had referred to the removal of his
of half-suppressed emotion, “Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth,
absence some one might gain access to the room, in spite of the

“Then on me be the onus of bringing it forward. Signior Eduardo, are
Henchard dropped the glass, and for some seconds made no other
      towards her so soon after this event.”
not true, why trouble about it? But what if, by some fate or deadlier
An answer was not really needed, and he did not furnish one. “Well,” he
      be any notice on either side; and that if it were, it must belong
deep down in your heart; so that we all felt for you.”
found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there. Felix and Agatha

      But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at

down here to console me. That is charming of you. You find me consoled,
“Nevertheless you did throw me over,” said Jordan suddenly. “You threw
groaning of the horns, the apparition stood swaying for a moment
A pause.
to the heart!—a mine of pure, genial affections. This was a blessing,
      “Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the
thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the


“Monitor of the first class, fetch the globes!”

bundle of old clothes.
that art had a soul, but that man had not. I am afraid, however, he
series of very solemn and obvious editorials for the Yale News—and now

      fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they were suddenly arrested by
disposition towards one who so thoroughly understood the poetry of
Chapter 25
      been pretty much the case.
you forget essential points in pursuing trifles: you do not inquire why
      from respectable, honourable, and ancient—though
He got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the
      been able to do something for him, and his situation must have
 Chapter XV. The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible
“O! no, no—I never shall,” she insisted, when he pressed her hand; and
position—that in case I married Miss Ingram, both you and little Adèle


will make out her meaning very well, I dare say.”

Mr. Rochester continued blind the first two years of our union; perhaps
Who can tell what a dark, dreary, hopeless life I have dragged on for

      him—laugh at him. Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to
strained every nerve to overtake you, and made effort on effort to
outside the door, struggling to look in through the glass panels.
      often see anybody better looking. It is what everybody says. I do
      colonel of the regiment, to accompany her to Brighton. This
listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet. It was a
torn.
tears, a fit of coughing seized Helen; it did not, however, wake the
secret of his life and hide his soul from the eyes of men.



      change as she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some
Baedeker. “They almost drowned me once over in New Jersey.”
“Why?”
name of the person she liked best in the world, and informed them of

expected.
visible now for the shutters were up. A crape bouquet was tied to the
was tending! Still, I like Charles—I respect him—I pity him, poor
servants were at Selby Royal. His valet had gone to bed.... Paris! Yes.
he divided his time curiously between musical and motoring circles.
“I was knocked down,” was the blunt explanation, jerked out of me by

how such things _should_ be done.”
been all animation with the game, and irritated pride did not lower the
might refuse to come. What could he do then? Every moment was of vital
He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of
feast. He turned his eyes to the grey gleaming river, winding along
or grow mad. There were sins whose fascination was more in the memory
against the west. I lingered till the sun went down amongst the trees,
land of mist and snow,” but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not
      if I _was_ uncivil? But I have other provocations. You know I
double-barrelled gun under his arm and some birds slung up behind him.
“Yes,” said Farfrae absently, “it is the way wi’ women.” But the fact

      of them in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur.
      her husband.
his mother, who was drawing away.”

monosyllable had a moral intention. Mr Harford sometimes formed one of

My father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my
it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as
the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but
than the other, and there was a difference in their style of wearing
“Ah! don’t remind me of that,” cried Dorian Gray.
myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours

hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers. You shall not die!
the night, “and that will make a hole in a sovereign,” said Farfrae.

such as even Dante could not have conceived.
“Only a mouse!” cried the little animal, indignantly. “Why, I am a
      “Your ladyship has declared it to be impossible.”
face seemed to inquire, “Do we speak to each other?”
As he was passing out of the door, Dorian Gray touched him on the arm.
“Because I disliked you too fixedly and thoroughly ever to lend a hand
preceded the hay-season had come—setting their special stamp upon

in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and heroism, that can
leeches, the spiders, and the dungmixen, the last fortnight in August
      Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to
evacuated for the schoolroom. I was one of the last to go out, and in
stood there for an hour, seeing nothing but the brown-clad figure cast
more wisely. I did wrong: I would have sullied my innocent
lost in the great fields. They kept on walking, however, and at night

“That affected his mind,” she said. “After that he began to mope by
If even this stranger had smiled and been good-humoured to me when I
deep and full vibration had expired—till the tide of talk, checked an
disclosed, never startled or troubled by one noxious allusion.
“Parnell,” said Mr Henchy, “is dead. Now, here’s the way I look at it.
Henchard. Jopp said, “Thank you,” and stood more firmly, in the
even if it inconvenienced him; the great difference in their characters



      thoughts? She supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an

About half a dozen men came forward; and, one being selected by the

are out of the forest?”
“I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the

In the course of the day I was enrolled a member of the fourth class,
to which you might revert with pleasure.”
such success. Gallaher’s heart was in the right place and he had

Yesterday the stranger said to me, “You may easily perceive, Captain
But when he heard himself say this, he flinched and began to cry “Oh,
even slices and were ready to be handed round at tea. Maria had cut
Rochester as to when he was going to bring his bride home; but he had
full and free forgiveness: ask now for God’s, and be at peace.”
      towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship,
“I know the Psa’am—I know the Psa’am!” said the leader hastily; “but I
thought for a moment he was going to shake hands.
out the light.”
      fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance
girls, file out before me, and locked the door, I stood with the key in

      sister, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameable mistrust!
length. “They’re an educated order. I believe they mean well too.”
Les dômes, sur l’azur des ondes
thought, and a just one. He admired the dexterity with which their host
and woods, all was quiet. The sun had recently set, and the west heaven
“I am not even singed. My wings are untouched.”
_Anglomanie_ is very fashionable over there now, I hear. It seems silly
      before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner himself did not
      mother resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”
whispered. “I am so sorry I didn’t act well. I was thinking of you all
distinct object against the trees. It was exactly one form of Bessie’s

get her away from the house. What did they do with her at Lowood? The
latter mood told her the sad news that he disliked her with a growing
lock like a burglar. So you shun me?—you shut yourself up and grieve
“A strange affair!” I said, in a low voice: then, looking at her
limit of my ambition. I dared not think that they would turn them from
      dance; and I spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an
or her sister, who seems to be gifted with perennial youth and whose
confidence if you admit me to your heart?”
was, to him, entirely justified. It was all very careless and
together with the pheasants and hares gathered from neighbouring

      “No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised,
face of the gentleman: I knew him; it was Mr. Lloyd, an apothecary,
continued also the wish to be with you, and experienced a strange,
“We can’t move,” they said together.
retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the
shall see what sort of a being I was cheated into espousing, and judge

out-and-out ruffian, not one of them ever preached _ex cathedra_ a word

a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm.
previously recorded episode. Change was only to be observed in details;
“Yes, of course,” replied Oz. “I am tired of being such a humbug. If I
      esteem. And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the
did my best in sewing for her and packing her dresses. It is true, that
tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke exhausted, and finding that
      purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him alone,
Casterbridge as elsewhere.

lived naturally through the half-fierce, half-lazy work of the bracing
become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of

afterward paid her fees at the Academy. Every year in the month of July
dwelt dreamily on the glowing grate; thinking it urgent to say
I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that I know I shall
“And though,” I continued, rather severely, “you wished to turn me from


done: fully explaining also why I had thus acted. Diana and Mary
walking was not at all good.
      prejudice against Mr. Darcy is so violent, that it would be the
                                 VII
the greater part of the hall was in darkness. I recognised a silence
interpreted it in a harsher sense than he had ever done. He had no
top of the stairs, bid me go down directly, as I was wanted in the
slightly raised voices.
strong feeling in his tones. “But it will be long before I see one that
of October, dismal and cold out of doors.

“I know these sailor chaps,” he said.
as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if
that purpose, his will was as wind. He did not arrive in time.
for tranquillity was no more. My world had for some years been in
      The first part of Mrs. Gardiner’s business on her arrival was to
she laughed with thrilling scorn. “Sophisticated—God, I’m
Mademoiselle, I will repeat you some poetry.”
“Meet me at eight o’clock this evening, if you can, at the Ring on the

glanced quickly to right and left (frowning slightly to make his errand
which ill-humour never soured, nor irritation never troubled? But Helen
Certainly, my associates and pursuits shall be other than they have
 Letter 2
      “Miss Bennet,” replied her ladyship, in an angry tone, “you ought
quicksilver; so that the loaves be as flat as toads, and like suet

      though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more
time to the examination of the Roman Catholic dogmas, and to a careful

detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs. I took refuge in the

as much so as a giant with wine: it gave new tone to my unstrung
affair to arbitration. The judges chosen were Mr. Oliver and an able
entreated—”
grief inferred. Could he have heard such conversation as passed he
      repaired to the dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see
as it would do a man tired of sitting still in a “too easy chair” to
There were many people—men, women, and children—walking about, and
She had worked herself into a passion and would have continued in
did not say to herself that Farfrae should be thankful for such


“I am careful.”
“Surely not! why, she is too old for such pettishness.”
“I thought I had beaten the Wicked Witch then, and I worked harder than
Henchard looked at him with a face stern and red. But he paused for a
      admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty also is
      should come together. Oh! he is the handsomest young man that
      On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the
gazed on them, I seemed intimate with every lineament. I cannot call
intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a ministerial statement

knowing the secret possibly to be that, in addition to early marine


      he need not stay. Lydia laughed, and said:
like a dagger. The people round began to gape. A lady standing close to
variation but of tint: green, where rush and moss overgrew the marshes;
But what had befallen the night? The moon was not yet set, and we were

in his slow melodious voice. “But I am afraid I cannot claim my theory

colourless, olive face, square, massive brow, broad and jetty eyebrows,
as I never saw before or since. Pain, shame, ire, impatience, disgust,
return, have restored me entirely to myself.
“No,” said Gabriel, turning to his wife, “we had quite enough of that
the end of your dock.”
      Derbyshire, I understand.”
“The sweet wind from Europe was still whispering in the refreshed
“Yes.”
or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. To become the spectator of
to a close, and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had
duration. And now vegetation matured with vigour; Lowood shook loose
a thing to be used indiscriminately, but it is good upon occasion: as
      or the insolent smiles of the ladies, were more intolerable.


      “My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I
“You lie!” cried James Vane.
stop: it was getting late. Someone gave the toast of the yacht _The
the same ones in physical person, but they were so identical one with
the end he had got mixed up in some shady affair, some money
      attentively, and then said:
rapidly. Prices were like the roads of the period, steep in gradient,
In answer to the knock Fall came to the door, candle in hand. The
cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion.
began this morning. Your life is in my hands.”
information,” and the white door closed, quite gently and civilly: but
      effect as to make her a sensible, amiable, well-informed woman
I was silent: the tidings were frightful. Robert Leaven resumed—
      necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mrs.

with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens. I remained,
advanced from behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once
Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant
      was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings,
be incensed than saddened.”
from St. John and every other questioner,” remarked Diana.
three huge folio volumes—a Family Bible, a “Josephus,” and a “Whole
too dull for you.”
true.”
received an answer: as well despatch epistles to a vault in a church
“I would far rather she went, sir.”

“O, but I didn’t!”
      and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and
his mistress, but it was that of a pastor recalling his wandering

about the throat, with little pockets of holland (shaped something like
I had read Goldsmith’s History of Rome, and had formed my opinion of
frowned. “I wonder where in the devil he met Daisy. By God, I may be
and earrings; she acted astonishment and admiration; kneeling, he laid
charity and turning to Mr Power. “Own up now!”

      any satisfaction, she had rather be without a confidante.

was Sir Henry Ashton, who had to leave England with a tarnished name.
although I was unable to define them.
recitation there was a silence and then a burst of clapping: even Mr
Baker to tea.”
exciting things hovering in the next hour.

      would scarcely give them a hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and
what you have done become in time to you utterly insupportable; you
coldly when he had recovered from his surprise. “I never thought you
feet of Louisa: Adèle shares it with him: he is trying to talk French
“Don’t believe everything you hear, Nick,” he advised me.
      which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient,
but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with
mistaken creature saw them, and stalked towards the end of the barn
benefited them; because, while it elevated them in their own eyes, it
      “No; but it must be done soon.”
broke out with, “Good God, why dostn’t leave off thanking that girl as
avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the
buried in it; rising high on each side, it left only a narrow space for
      opinion.
threw the knife on the table, and listened.

My help had been needed and claimed; I had given it: I was pleased to

determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from
qualified to give those who enjoyed the privilege of her converse a
“But you said that she—or as I may say _you_”—answered Elizabeth,
Dorian Gray will dominate me. You can’t feel what I feel. You change
to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. I shall

over a rival had nothing to recommend it to the Mayor’s headstrong
nodded her head gravely and slowly in acquiescence. At last, when he
“I quite forgot the engagement,” murmured Farfrae.
“I want you,” he said: “come this way: take your time, and make no




held sway. Field labourers and their wives and children trooped in from

“Let me get you some orchids, Duchess,” cried Dorian, starting to his


      Elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility,
round there; but what it was she could not discern. It seemed to be a
things remained Farfrae’s secret alone.


was the channel of all such communications as passed between the busy
prescriptions. He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and
“I think I could jump over it,” said the Cowardly Lion, after measuring
Mr. Rochester was standing near me; he had taken my hand, as if to lead

      “I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If
Henchard’s face had become still more stern at these interruptions, and
girl in arms there could be little doubt. No other than such

Mr Browne helping him with advice. At last she was settled comfortably
his pocket; “his painting had quite gone off. It seemed to me to have
Miss Templeman looked at Elizabeth-Jane with interest, and laid down
with him. The present—the passing second of time—was all I had in which
Suddenly she felt the need to speak. The wordy silence troubled her.

      affection and confidence subsisted between Mr. Darcy and herself.
conform to the world so openly—here in an evangelical, charitable
course; he had boasted of his free-thinking and denied the existence of
“I never loved him,” she said, with perceptible reluctance.
She laughed herself this time good-humouredly and then added quickly:

the figures had been shadows and the firelit apartment a picture: so
      “Yes; but, when questioned by _him_, Denny denied knowing
would be too late.
and she had never killed anything in all her life.
broached: but he seemed to have entered another train of reflection:
though the begrimed face, the disordered dress (his coat hanging loose
      long indulged, and must be unavailing. She could think of nothing
speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like
      melancholy event takes place—which, however, as I have already

“No, sir; I am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify me
accomplishments? What, with the largest portion of your
      maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the dictates of
candle-snuff on the wall, and looking at the original he found that it
reading an English novel. It must be seven. No gentleman dines before
liked the review immensely. Then she said suddenly:
find out they have neither souls nor hearts—when they open to me a
      step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. His
hundreds, Daisy’s voice was playing murmurous tricks in her throat.
“Let us shut it out,” coaxed Elizabeth-Jane, noting that the rigid

politics were viewed by them less from their own standpoint of
do nothing and go nowhere!—when a long way must yet be measured by my
would be madness to bind myself to him knowing that. I won’t be a slave


to life. It appeared to be a handsome young man, about five and twenty
If Oz will not give you any brains you will be no worse off than you
from the grass bents. It seemed possible to carry out the programme
you hear? It’s an agreement to part. She shall take the girl if she
me, if not of life, yet for ever of happiness.”
had in all probability left England and rushed in reckless desperation
The scene was the hall of Capulet’s house, and Romeo in his pilgrim’s
it utterly impossible.

great singers of the past it seemed to me, I must confess, that we were
“Oh. The Mayor’s out o’ town, isn’t he?”

ago, had no school: the children of the poor were excluded from every
The lad muttered something to himself and drummed on the window-pane
machinations.
I had lost.
contented. The Scarecrow told them there were wonderful thoughts in his
written in big, white chalk marks:
“You will change your mind, I hope, when you grow older: as yet you are
fading out into a grey impalpable world: the solid world itself which

counterbalanced by the immense respect he had for his brains.

his severe censorship, frozen up her precious affection when originally
Most of the big shore places were closed now and there were hardly any

came round, his exuberant Scotch movement making him conspicuous in a
may say what it will of James Hepburn, but I have a notion, he was just

brooch which was fixed in the front of her collar bore on it an Irish
sunstone, and the moonstone’s pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow
as if recollecting something, he said—
woes. It was strange she never once adverted either to her mother’s
approaching departure from Marsh End should render yours necessary.”
of conscience I told you of some time ago—about the first lover and the
then I did not see the use of staying, as I was not to rouse the house.

      them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the

with the rage of the English democracy against what they call the vices
still lingered in the west. In a second or two he stood beside the
my plate. He returned to his pipe and finally spat rudely into the
was all over now, and, as I stooped to pick up the two fragments of
starving dog. In crossing a field, I saw the church spire before me: I
      your life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions
feet. He was still discomposed by the girl’s bitter and sudden retort.
Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and
      the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement
despair. But I—I have lost everything and cannot begin life
Chapter 54

      her wishes did not err. But when she read and re-read with the

      the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as I
     He is dead. Our Uncrowned King is dead.
      their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.


“If ye’d been minding your business instead of zwailing along in such a
from the arch; through it appeared the dining-room, with its lit lustre
animals. The good stabling and the good ale of the Mariners, though
and follow them thither they had crossed over; thus the pursuit went
      mentioned to him again. The principal purport of his letter was


back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at
“Now, now; we don’t want to hear that,” said Henchard gently. “Of
talked of his future wife dying with him. What did he mean by such a
about.”
without a will left him master of the estate; and, indeed, no wonder he
which he passed they did so morosely. He found trivial all that was

latter running no slight risk of having their toes trodden upon by the
Iron gates between granite pillars showed me where to enter, and
then?” he asked.
the courtyard to tell the Lion that the Wicked Witch of the West had
nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came—oh, my beautiful
Mr. Reed had been dead nine years: it was in this chamber he breathed
original theme. “Here—I am waiting to know about this offer of mine.
“What are they, madam?” inquired Mr. Rochester aloud.
“What awful event has taken place?” said she. “Speak! let us know the
Silence composes the nerves; and as an unbroken hush now reigned again
bores have. By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he
and that long, cold gallery, by the livelier aspect of my little room,
died moaning in the distance; the rain fell fast, wetting me afresh to
muscular arms. Hampered as he was, however, he could not keep him

      to an elopement. She was then but fifteen, which must be her
      amusements. Mrs. Bennet and her daughters apologised most civilly
among the townspeople; and knowing Henchard’s nature now she had feared
Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face,
“I know all about the honour of God, Mary Jane, but I think it’s not at

observed the proceeding with much uneasiness; but he persuaded her to
the queen one could behold “all the chaste ladies of the world,
      should be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now
I knew instantly now! It opened clear on my comprehension that Helen
tablecloth. They were Bank-of-England notes for five pounds. Upon the
“I dare say you are clever, though,” continued Bessie, by way of
to spend money on them right enough,” he added, in a convincing tone,
      No one but Mrs. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so

      chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and herself.
“The volume of _Plutarch’s Lives_ which I possessed contained the
thousand reasons why liaisons between governesses and tutors should
changed into something that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from
hear mama on the chapter of governesses: Mary and I have had, I should
reconciling kiss?”
indifferent to life itself. The consciousness of being hunted, snared,
astounded (the author of the witticism no less than his neighbours) and
“Ah, poor James!” she said. “God knows we done all we could, as poor as
moments and then the young woman went down the steps into the area of a

the first decent opportunity had come to ask him to rectify, by making

seemed to make the stillness more oppressive. The dim roar of London
had so nearly encountered him. He had gone on thence into the court,
I was stuck on a pole in a cornfield, where I could make-believe scare
rapid recovery. He soon was well enough to go out; and now things
      She then ran gaily off, rejoicing as she rambled about, in the
      ladies were delighted to see their dear friend again, called it
      highly in my favour; and you should take it into further
      There was no want of discourse. The bride and her mother could
pilgrim—a disguised deity, as I verily believe. Already it has done me
came over her. “How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!” she cried.
wonderful things. There were four of them in this country, and they
answered her only by a joke and one of his queer looks, and she could

“Biloxi,” he answered shortly.
      profession—I was brought up for the church, and I should at this
------------------------------------------------------------------------
length each went home. Then Henchard shaved for the first time during
sacks in a crouching attitude, unusual for a man, and for such a man.


      thus been self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she
“Well, Browne, if you’re serious you might make a worse discovery. All


Gatsby’s eyes followed it momentarily; he raised his hand and pointed
which I had been listening had sprung from a depth where lay turbid
      her as her future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of
“No you don’t,” interposed Tom quickly. “Myrtle’ll be hurt if you

A pale well-dressed negro stepped near.
She pointed suddenly at me, and everyone looked at me accusingly. I
      doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others as in his
“Nay; I dunnut want ye to do nought.”
Him; to His warnings that man shall not live by bread alone, but by

him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought that art, like
With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
dreadful old bear.” And she ran across the room and hugged him.
but you did do it. That’s what I get for marrying a brute of a man, a

being, with many faults and few redeeming points, yet I never tired of
that. I wouldn’t like to face your journey home at this hour.”
Some time passed before I felt tranquil even here: I had a vague dread

loved, well-remembered voice—that of Edward Fairfax Rochester; and it
time the tree fell over with a crash, whereupon the Scarecrow’s clothes
chamber and fand him. Ah, childer! that’s t’ last o’ t’ old stock—for
of flame they seemed, rimmed with white fire. He turned them out and,
returning to some former remark of his:
plans of honour and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose,
      talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kitty
with apathy; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful

      think it of light importance that he should have attentive and
wondered if I had said anything to offend him.
secret. However, when she drew near the limit and her friends began to
The gentlemen drank again, one following another’s example. Mr Kernan
      When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure she found
beauty. There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet
 

inquisitive you are, Harry! You always want to know what one has been
      “I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said he. “Wickham,
crayons; and in less than a fortnight I had completed an ivory
recommend my being sent to school; and the recommendation was no doubt
and with one sentient point in the middle of the lump. Yes: does that
the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and sympathy which
      some time, but I am now convinced.”
      ankle in the first dance!”


      stream. Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole
      all—all too late now.”
I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my
hock-and-seltzer myself. There is sure to be some in the next room.”
proletariat live correctly.”

And I am a hard woman,—impossible to put off

virtues, for whose exercise there was no necessity in their own lives.
beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood

feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred. I tried to stifle
them that they were no longer slaves.
tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English,
moustache, praised very highly the leading contralto of the company but
locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in colour and
when he turned to me, that they were always written on the air between
Yet it was not this alone that made him gloomy and morose.
      yourself. I wonder when you _would_ have spoken, if I had not
“Ah! I’m afraid that what I feel will make me forget my manners!”

“The trees seem to have made up their minds to fight us, and stop our
and, as I pattered, he used to smile pensively and nod his head, now

her first excitement. Possibly they were destroyed; but she could have
      the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable
      gave way before the hope of Jane’s being in the fairest way for
some ladies’ punch, hot, strong and sweet. As they said they never took
Summoning Mary, I soon had the room in more cheerful order: I prepared

The hiss of the quenched element, the breakage of a pitcher which I
painted bar that ran across one complete side stood two haggard women,
brother”—tears came into his eyes as he spoke—“but
felt the distance between us to be far greater than when he had known


shake before Miss Oliver, I do not pity myself. I scorn the weakness. I
all the time. His gorgeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of

free, even though I—did not like you so well.”
the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had


proud superiority. “I would not wish it—at such a time, too, as this. I
the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim,
Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on
my soul with anguish.
cigar; having placed it to his lips and breathed a trail of Havannah
a room, told her I should probably be a visitor here for a week or two,

in lifting you to prosperity. I could not forget your conduct to me,

being told this; but as I began to look very grave, she consented at
“It is fair to-night,” said she, as she looked through the panes,
the aid of his shoulders, made ready to leave.
      accompanied her out of the room. As they went downstairs
“Alan! This is kind of you. I thank you for coming.”
He looked at me before he proceeded: indeed, he seemed leisurely to
in the fair. When he reached a lane, a good mile from the scene of the
The constable nodded knowingly, but what he knew was nothing. Nohow
“Oh—I am so sorry!” cried Lucetta, with a nervous titter. Farfrae tried
brought my work near to a conclusion.
“O Mr. Farfrae,” she faltered, “so have I. But I didn’t know it was you
Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching. The
marble mantelpiece, or take stains from papered walls, and then pass
      Mr. Collins joining in, observed:
“Oh, yes. Some of us are very good tinsmiths,” they told her.
“Oh, I don’t mind him a bit,” said Dorothy. “But you are so beautiful,”
He crossed the room to her with a heavy tread of some awkwardness, his
presents had been interchanged, dinners and evening parties given. From
      imprudence—in short anything or nothing. Certain it is, that the
      employment, she resolved, soon after breakfast, to indulge

No telephone message arrived, but the butler went without his sleep
five-and-twenty.”
flannel—that’s to put under me, and the little piece is to put under my
had fled from Thornfield, and when I could nowhere find you; and, after
desire to be entertained. Mr Fitzpatrick came in, smiled vacantly at
but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at the
Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual.
      not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to say

irksome to me. Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my
delirium or death would have been my portion.
      Bingley’s salutation. He was full of joy and attention. The first
could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any
appealed to Miss Healy. Miss Healy wanted to join the other group but
He hadn’t once ceased looking at Daisy, and I think he revalued
under a block of wood.”
came tripping down the path.
every wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word may
times defied her authority and laughed it to scorn; she dressed well,
controlling your features, muffling your voice, and restricting your
himself what is a woman standing on the stairs in the shadow, listening
you were away from me, you were still present in my art.... Of course,

believe it to be an intuitive discernment, a quick but never-failing
he replied, “To seek one who fled from me.”
      observation, and hurried her away to her room.
spent at an inn; fifty miles the next day. During the first twelve

of her habits: more harmonious thoughts: what seemed better regulated
country—not only for life, but in death. Yes, and deems, and is bound
when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly
whether it rained. Dusk as it was, I had recognised him—it was my



moments he said to him, “Have you really a very bad influence, Lord
saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to
A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent forward and
      disappointed; but he soon found that he had a very different story
      traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not
which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite
members he is one, shall give the word, ‘Rise, follow Me!’”
and on the matting in the gallery. I was surprised at this

“He wants her to see his house,” she explained. “And your house is
be a different parting from any they had ever yet known. It would

hope that among these travellers between Casterbridge and London some
“What can I do for you, Mr. Gray?” he said, rubbing his fat freckled
      good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!—so

her, but it was necessary; and with a sigh she arranged herself
out of England? Days would elapse before he could come back. Perhaps he
day.
And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the admission
      night; but I was not then master enough of myself to know what
“I don’t quite think there are any miracles nowadays,” she said.
if it had been powdered over with ashes. “We don’t want to hear your

cottage and cultivating the garden.

occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the
loudly. What jovial fellows! What good company they were!


      a forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to
he’s a-doing on’t! Ye see it can’t be helped, Mr. Farfrae; things do

“O no, Miss Newson. Why would I be?”
between one and any mischief that may be about. A deal of people, Miss,
“And the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you
“Dost mind how you could jerk a trout ashore with a bramble, and not
      The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in
house broke the broad sweep of flat country that reached to the edge of
He turned towards his wife to be confirmed.
Elizabeth saw no more of them.

faintly handsome. When he saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into his
      malice of Mr. Darcy.” She then sought her eldest sister, who had
What did you do afterwards? Did you go straight home?”
that’s the wish of a sincere friend, an old friend. You know that?”
island, almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now
      Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
noise.”

as little as possible: John thrust his tongue in his cheek whenever he
Opposite was the Duchess of Harley, a lady of admirable good-nature and
homely place, though recommended as moderate, might not be too serious
often imagines things that are quite absurd. He was really very devoted
“Who are those?” said the lady.

bowed down with despair as he perceived the image of unscrupulous
      “Is my father in town?”
everything, defending his name against accusations that had not been
discovered to her alarm that her mother’s health was not what it once
      be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his
I am better than he: I am forced to confess that he and I are on a
aspect of each familiar object in full daylight, there—on the carpet—I
      him with her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely
      unlike _them_. Had you not been really amiable, you would have
house, but my head whirled round, my steps were like those of a drunken

laugh like that. I am telling you the truth. The wretched peasant who
“Ah, well! We did our best, the dear knows.”

the ancient defences of the town, planted as a promenade.
days. I’m deuced glad, I can tell you, to get back to the old country.
      Miss Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy
Gatsby took up his drink.
      concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
      feel no doubt of your secrecy. My sister, who is more than ten
the Athenaeum. It is the hour when we sleep there.”
The chance that did her steps delay



      The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run
      “Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of

      overtaken by Wickham.
and rough undergrowth.
but come up into the little back-parlour, which was empty. He thereupon
the weakly lamp-glimmer that she could not bear to look at it—the first

I; but I was a good deal interested and excited.

in a crowded summer, and, until much later, they absorbed me

Great Wizard I told you of.”

polite good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields.

way, ma’am: he wouldn’t leave the house till every one else was out
minister, almost rave in my restlessness. Well, propensities and
noticed.”
yielded; I scattered the crumbs, some on the stone sill, some on the
It was a lovely night, so warm that he threw his coat over his arm and

She put her floury and horny hand into mine; another and heartier smile
Antient Concert Rooms. Many of her pupils belonged to the better-class

Their reminiscences were cut short by the appearance of the reunited
with few pretensions.


“Certainly; that is why I know it,” returned the Scarecrow. “If it
And then she would pout like a disappointed child; a pensive cloud

of course, you want some one who can write that?”

Just as they were naming their poisons who should come in but Higgins!
were the most fascinating of sins. Religion consoles some. Its
that the witches were all dead—years and years ago.”



front of him. A strange sense of loss came over him. He felt that
laughing.
to predominate, to overcome, to live, rise, and reign at last: yes,—and
Henchard did not take the trouble to reply for a few moments, and his
minute, I saw a tear slide from under the sealed eyelid, and trickle
business, I tell you. You just wait.”
it—you’ll make more out of it heere than I will in a foreign country.
      “Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy!
fulfil imaginary engagements in the country. More than he resented the
As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the
mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors. I do not ever
in those days, Jane, was a thoughtful look; not despondent, for you
“But suppose we cannot?” said the girl.
“I am not the same, Harry.”
How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
“And did he go home?” asked Gabriel.
couch in a corner. They seemed greatly surprised to see so strange a
considerable: a gentleman’s manor-house, not a nobleman’s seat:
    my name, by asking you to carry out your promise to me. I hope you
“Much better.” I turned again to my new acquaintance. “This is an

better, therefore, for the insignificant to keep out of his way, lest,
eight years ago from Gateshead.
allowed their poor carcases to follow that gaze; and they were
Women are so fond of using it. They spoil every romance by trying to

      name to Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together,



putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of
to foot. After a little while, a black shadow that had been creeping
vibrant emotions.
good little child, whose soul is now in heaven. It is to be feared the
“You’re crazy, Nick,” he said quickly. “Crazy as hell. I don’t know
      they were by themselves. “How strange this is! And for _this_ we
“I feel tired often, sleepy sometimes, but seldom sad.”
      Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when she found
      again to-day?”
“Much the same.”
      consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is
      “Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?”
arrival. Henchard had frequently met this man about the streets,
crying, nor any more pain, because the former things were passed away.
sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.
Hence, when she felt her heart going out to him, she would say to
      “It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed
bell-pull on either side of the chimney-piece.
      again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased her. She was even
“That’s why he nearly blunted my claws,” said the Lion. “When they
a blank point far away. “But the machines are already very common in
Elizabeth-Jane thought and thought of these words “kept me alive,” as
you mind coming to me? But perhaps—”
      quite as well as Jane’s.”
one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding
was being chaffed. Weathers made them all have just one little tincture
the narrative far less of gall and wormwood than ordinary. Thus
orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners. They make one’s rooms

“Ye’ll want your supper, I am sure,” observed Hannah; “and so will Mr.
Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. Then there are
to the torments of martyrs; to the exhortations of our blessed Lord
your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I
I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply.
her daughter Elizabeth-Jane the true story of her life, the tragical

yachting cap. And when the Tuolomee left for the West Indies and the
before this evening I’ll lay the matter before Mr Crosbie.... Do you
“Forgive me, sir,” muttered James Vane. “I was deceived. A chance word
asked, “What am I to do?”
let him or her speak.”
door bore a brass plate with the inscription _Mr Alleyne_. Here he
engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled
one day at least permits me to enjoy.”
ardent and flushed.
_To Mrs. Saville, England._
“I thank you,” he replied, “for your sympathy, but it is
somewhat Henchard repeated to himself that the lie which had retained

egg in the Columbus story, they are both crushed flat at the contact
      down. Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a
shall repose in peace. I understand your feeling,” continued he,
could have said precisely; but his taciturnity was unbroken, and the

I was growing truly irritated: happily, Adèle ran in.
      Does he know his real character?”
      are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage
a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her. Why not?
hospitably in the cold night. He looked down the slope and, at the
      the deepest blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed
at its height below, as it always was at this hour. The young woman
him married, and beheld his bride happy?”
      likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to
Hallward as he did so. As soon as he got behind him, he seized it and
      as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent

The parlour was rather a small room, very plainly furnished, yet
“But do you approve of it, Harry?” asked the painter, walking up and
as the most generally useful of all Catholic devotions and approved of
      which few can boast. You see on what a footing we are. You see
“Yes—I think he has told them, or else Mr. Grower has.... May I leave
Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate; I desire,

and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features.
breakfast-time she told her companion that she had something on her
“Your fortune is yet doubtful: when I examined your face, one trait
man. I will hold to the principles received by me when I was sane, and
“Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see her

are nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think
“I’m sorry about the clock,” he said.

“I do.”
“I’m going to have the McKees come up,” she announced as we rose in
      unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and
expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress. Two years

“Ah, no, ma’am,” said Farfrae, suddenly recalling himself.
shall see it yourself, to-night!” he cried, seizing a lamp from the
home.”
“Mais oui, mademoiselle: voilà cinq ou six heures que nous n’avons pas
      As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any
      handed the ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off,
      original plan.”

“My darling child!” she cried, folding the little girl in her arms and
get you something to eat.”
of the milk into the pails—a street which had nothing urban in it

other side of the warrld, to try my fortune in the great wheat-growing
Home Again
“I will be a dressmaker; I will be a plain-workwoman; I will be a
than in the morning—its fires being allowed to burn a little more
it was true Wisdom that consoled me in that hour, and showed me the

“Without trouble.”
he would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping down and
“he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh! Not the
the letter:—
“We heard you yelling, so I said to Doc Civet here: ‘There’s somebody
proportionate to her solid guarantees for the same.

the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff. I found
      “I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters
young again. While he expressed these sentiments which bored us a
“Truly, Jane?”
beside the river. He was dressed in a rich costume of pink silk and
there at least once and the Baedeker girls and young Brewer, who had
“Good God, papa! Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of
“You’ve seen Mr. Farfrae,” said Elizabeth demurely.


rustic seat. Mr. Rochester took it, leaving room, however, for me: but
stopped his car.”


bound to invoke Memory where I know her responses will possess some


      that had been the case?”
A breakfast-room adjoined the drawing-room, I slipped in there. It
How we longed for the light and heat of a blazing fire when we got

“If you had such, would you like to go to them?”
“Then, you could dare censure for my sake?”

      assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of
seek amusement in society. I abhorred the face of man. Oh, not
while I sat, I heard wheels, and saw a coach come on. I stood up and
“Thirty years ago I hadn’t a bad voice as voices go.”
There was a stifled groan and the horrible sound of some one choking
could not change: you tell me to my face I shall change soon. And what


whistle “The Rosary,” tunelessly, inside.
inattentive. Miss Ivors promptly took his hand in a warm grasp and said
being that ever lived could wish to be loved better than I was loved;

trying.”

as I can remember.”
      When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and
shut out from Farfrae’s mind all vision of Lucetta as the culprit.
fetter your heart?”
big head tenderly. Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in
      interference, lest Mary should be singing all night. He took the
“Are there many of these mice which call you Queen and are willing to
      resolution.

a state bordering on distraction at his misconception of Henchard’s
“At least you are like it in appearance. But it will never alter,”
“Some money, sir—not much, and a six-shooter. There was no name of any

When he was calmer he turned to his original conviction that he must
      absence _had_ been self-imposed.
      London, Colonel F. came on into Hertfordshire, anxiously renewing

alike—straight-sided, with two leafless lime-trees done in eel-brown on
best that I go.”
      him into the shrubbery. They both set off, and the conjectures of
distress her, she said she wanted to write something. A desk was put
      Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at last she
      Elizabeth. “The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one
take upon his own shoulders the responsibility of organizing some
distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with

to such finnikin details. Henchard himself was mentally and physically
      was afraid her anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were

arrangement without speaking, though I heard a low voice address him:

Maria laughed and laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the
recognised, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the
In the resolute readiness with which you cut your wealth into four
“don’t talk like that. I have never had such a friend as you, and I
suitable lodgings could be found.
such as no language can describe.
      could not have formed a very pleasing opinion of conjugal
against a pillow or an arm, and felt easy.
her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold
Henchard had determined to do no work that day. He primed himself in


arguments for the other side out of pure generosity (though apparently

“I told her I was out of a job,” said Corley. “I told her I was in
his throat in the night air. Gabriel watched his wife, who did not join
      Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell her nothing
When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.

other Terpsichorean figures in respect of door-steps, scrapers,
went intact to Ella Kaye. He was left with his singularly appropriate
such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed. The ice cracked

of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig

      she is deceiving herself.”
      And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elizabeth
between leaving England for India, and India for the grave, be filled?
      Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends; and she
When she walked with her mother, on the other hand, she often beheld
“His _elder_ brother?”
“What to do?—where to go?”
      him to be despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not
      seems, and there they are to stay I do not know how long. His
      whisper, “that this adventure has rather affected your admiration
jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney
      to avoid a reply.
“He is dead,” she said at length. “He died when he was only seventeen.
      us; was it so?”
      “She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him.”
“Father Purdon? Father Purdon?” said the invalid.
perhaps he had an easier, surer way of finding out what he wanted to

      sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of
“Why do you want water?” he asked.
scarcely pant. After some minutes’ silence, he continued, cheerily—

some supper and a place to sleep.”

eyes as well as well! He was standing at the end of the wall where


“Ah, my boys, you’ve sung it,” said Henchard triumphantly. “As for him,
truth. How could she ever suppose such a thing?”
himself about sixteen miles to perform for each of the three days’
him the next morning early. He opened his basket and ate for his
quick ear, with which she observed and heard through the open door and


service, filed from the church doors across the way to the Three
he came back he was humming a tune.
ere long she touched my knee.
it. I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and

surprised with my cargo of victualage; so I stood still at this end,
      opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his
      their relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to
ass the man was to get in front of the guns! Stop shooting there!” he

except shape and size.

of the narrative itself: a wealthy Englishman’s passion for a French
The three men pushed past the whining match-sellers at the door and

salary.”
penniless, and alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my
CHAPTER XX

      the officers.—Yours ever,

his purposeless splendour.
personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered,

      mentioning a country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite
Her guests this evening were rather tedious. The fact was, as she

we’ll see how a coxcomb can front a man!”

      read,
      astonished and vexed her.
and needles began to stick out of his brains. Finally he said:
“‘Never mind,’” said the farmer. “‘They are ears just the same,’” which
Anybody may blame me who likes, when I add further, that, now and then,

broke the strange stillness at last, it was audible enough to me.
      him a living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced
She had finished her breakfast, so I permitted her to give a specimen
shadow they made real: how strange it all was! He remembered something
He sprang from the cabin-window as he said this, upon the ice raft
      On his quitting the room she sat down, unable to support herself,

“What’s the matter, Daisy?”
upon her again, Elizabeth-Jane being absent.
on whose cushioned tops were yet apparent traces of half-effaced
in the palm.
danger. “You told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it,” he
dish, beautifully carved. Placing this before the Cowardly Lion, who
had experienced: for I could recall it, with all its unspeakable
“No crowding,” said Mr. Rochester: “take the drawings from my hand as I
was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went. Now and
myself that, and that I have no claim upon you. Had he not died I
“Now, I haven’t told you quite all yet. My wife Susan has my daughter

the end of his stick, a change of his hat from the horizontal to the
fair and dark kings and queens on the card-table, and finally at the
Elizabeth thought it odd that he had fixed on this spot to retire to,
strange, almost modern romance. A beautiful woman risking everything
“Why not?” I asked myself. “What alienates him from the house? Will he
rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I
the crowd, looking on the spectacle generally with proud satisfaction
      over. She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
often petitioned to be allowed to take in my hand in order to examine
every couch and table, under orders to be breathlessly silent until we
      silent, however, and, from a determination of making him speak,
A kind fairy, in my absence, had surely dropped the required suggestion
at Thornfield. “Was it known how it originated?” I demanded.
asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are well; and not a


defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely necessary.”
      will ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for
“It is about yourself,” answered Hallward in his grave deep voice, “and
the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all
honey-dew fell, such silence reigned, such gloaming gathered, I felt as
read by Miss Miller; afterwards she called out—
account at a spot on Durnover Hill—as far as possible from Henchard’s
appeals were lost upon them. And when I received their cold answers
“A matter of six miles.”
The deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to
straighten out those dents in the Tin Woodman, and bend him back into
nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for
settle in the adjoining room. She could hear him moving about in his

      the day that was to make him the happiest of men; and though such

be, I did not care or know. I took a soft black pencil, gave it a broad
      Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not
“You cannot now wonder,” continued my master, “that when you rose upon
“Dorian,” cried Hallward, “that is not the question. England is bad
signify. My very soul demands you: it will be satisfied, or it will
what’s happened and here am I. Now, what am I to do—am I sober enough
and rain, brood on over the solemn dumping ground.
always treated them with great cruelty. They kept this day as a
“I can’t describe to you how surprised I was to find out I loved her,
the horse groan, barked till the evening hills echoed the sound, which

your time, so you might have known her. I am very much interested in

money, on which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he
      readiness and ease of a well-bred man, and talked very
night, to the joy of the horror-struck villagers, had pursued his
CHAPTER II
were chiefly two things. He had been described as a lonely widower; and
      but, however, I hope it is not true. A great many changes have
“I should be obliged to take time, sir, before I could give you an
three-legged crock, kept hot by a smouldering wood fire beneath. Over
      my side, and that it has done no harm to anyone but myself.”
I went to give up that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits
      “The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their
      Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him
“Did you speak these words aloud?”
are met here as friends, in the spirit of good-fellowship, as
      Darcy they had seen only at church.
could mark, stitch, knit, &c.; till she dismissed me, I could not

whose wounds are like red roses.
      the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted
      “I should never have considered the distance as one of the
      principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings,
      daughter!
poured upon it the ball burned fiercely.

the day with her in comfort; that kindly conversation could not be
for a moment, and then looked upward as though he suspected that it
manifestations of character—watched them closely, keenly, shrewdly.

so very foolish that she still waited on. A winnowing machine stood
      come, for there is such fun here! What do you think has happened
were now lighted up with indignation, now subdued to downcast sorrow
unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my

mile from the village. The birds were singing their last strains—
explained to Dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her married
insolent carriage, was universally indulged. Her beauty, her pink
much. Elizabeth was earnest to listen and sympathize.
      housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met them at
his heel, went away.
perfection of the spirit that is Greek. The harmony of soul and
dealings with positive, hard characters, antagonistic to my own,
“Carter, take him under the other shoulder. Be of good cheer, Richard;

“What a pity there is such a poor house tonight! It’s so hard on people
overheard—and I should be ruined. I’m supposed to be a Great Wizard.”
pointed caps. And, strangest of all, these people were all made of
that stood like eastern guards at either side of the dark entrance to

days?”
But she was never tired of watching Donald, as he stood in animated




the direction of Millcote.” She went to the window. “Here he is!” said
friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not
had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those
it back? What a pity! it was really a masterpiece. I remember I wanted
with a subtle doom, such as, in one night, fell on all the first-born

destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth? She was
rapid rush of retrospective thought before I quailed to the dismal
I thought I had taken a wrong direction and lost my way. The darkness
regret being added to those he had already experienced at having, by
the county of ——, and of Ferndean Manor, in ——shire, England, was

creation.”

“Are you warm, darling?”

that all was over. She was by that time laid out. Eliza and I went to
         And on that day may Erin well
      its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he

ever this gentle, gracious, genial stranger, thereby securing his own

Edward.”
emergence from Corn Street for a twenty minutes’ blow on that rather
been spent at school: Mrs. Reed had never sent for me to Gateshead;
within the tent was the sight of several horses crossing their necks
conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane. It was not
would die. For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and
around I saw and heard of none like me. Was I, then, a monster, a blot
Elizabeth-Jane started at the question; and it was with some confusion
of jealousy, rising on undulating coils from the moonlit balcony,
would have been enlightened thus much:—


sky and a lustreless moon. In the foreground four solemn men in dress
Justine shook her head mournfully. “I do not fear to die,” she said;
“I hope you’ll spend an evening with us,” he said, “before you go back.
seen Gatsby, that her sister was completely happy with her husband,

  Chapter 20
 XXVII
      the Longbourn family. They saw him often, and to his other
independent will, which I now exert to leave you.”
lady pays for the education and clothing of an orphan from the
life) he became sad. A gentle melancholy took possession of him. He

that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not everything. Mind
face, and seemed about to linger there. But he suddenly started up, and

out.”
“Save them till they are wanted. They will keep.”
him as if he were on parade and, when he wished to gaze after someone
“Drink, Richard: it will give you the heart you lack, for an hour or
      Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity. “If it were merely a fine
While Lord Henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to the
      After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of
coming here and seeing you!”
there’s a little quiet dancing. You see damp weather spoils it, so I
      many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose

It transpired after a confused five minutes that the man had heard
realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the
When Dorothy had time to open these books she found them full of queer
softly, and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The drawing-room curtains
      elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady’s
kissed her: she looked at me.
      guarded enquiry; and they soon drew from those enquiries the full
deviation into the ardent, the excited, the eager: something which
Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt. When she
      importance of money, great connections, and pride.”
admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that
      account for the honour of seeing you here.”
“Jane!” He had opened the portal and stood at it, waiting for me.
She would have five shillings clear after paying tram fare. What a nice
“Do you know, Jane, I have your little pearl necklace at this moment
all _woman_kind (for I began to regard the notion of an intellectual,
glass of grog and he’s a bit of a rake, perhaps, and he’s a good
Farfrae was silent, and at his silence Henchard’s soul sank within him.
come out of her room with a basin, or a plate, or a tray in her hand,
speech to Lucetta she continued, “It is because he does not think I am
discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at the title page of my
possible at the hands of Time and Chance except, perhaps, fair play.
V.
hastened before Bessie; I softly opened the door: a shaded light stood
      satisfied. Has he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?”
her tittered.
Several wealthy and benevolent individuals in the county subscribed
They searched Egdon, but found no Henchard. Farfrae drove onward, and
but now that you have killed one of them, there is but one Wicked Witch
“I suppose so, sir.”
find her out. You know the rest.” Again he was going, but I set my back

this pale creature in a dogged, unflinching spirit which did credit to
      latter method in her partiality for Wickham, and that its ill
coral and apple-green and lavender and faint orange, with monograms of

midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain. I

one great roar. “Who are you, and why do you seek me?”
room to say that she wished to speak with him. She felt sure she would

its willow islands and over the summits of its hills. I have dwelt many
“Your wife doesn’t love you,” said Gatsby. “She’s never loved you.
polished to silver brightness by the long friction of his hands. He had

“Well—there’s a difference between ’em, though he do call himself a
But Kathleen gathered in her skirt and said: _“Now, Mr Bell,”_ to the
to you, to walk with you, to sit with you, to wait on you, to be eyes
corn-factor’s they had been made to wince individually on more than one
some American detective stories which were traversed from time to time
shirked, must be firmly sustained.
criminal is accused, he is always allowed to speak in his own defence.


“Oh, I will,” he broke out hastily. “Of course I’m not likely to see


“Can’t you get down?” asked Dorothy.

had regained the gallery, and was just shutting the back-door behind
theme—courtship; and promise to end in the same catastrophe—marriage.”

taste of far higher things.
“They were not entirely happy. The young man and his companion often
he lay and reassure him: “I’ll get somebody for you, Gatsby. Don’t
“It was rather above my figure,” she said quietly. “But it is not
      it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health

      thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House,

“Don’t mind Mr. Joker,” said the Princess to Dorothy. “He is
the November night and revisiting the out-of-the-way places to which
his pay sequestrated. He was dead now, and her mother too, and she was
“Well, what do you want me to do?” he said gently. “I am sure I shall

had the courage to commit.”
exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the
By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed and
      “Certainly,” he replied, biting his lips. Elizabeth hoped she had
those accessories might be.
he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more

scarce worth one’s while to begin any work o’ consequence to-day. I’m
know some day,—as well now as later. Your name is Jane Eyre?”


turned to the mirror. At that moment I saw the reflection of the visage
again and Mrs Donnelly said Maria would enter a convent before the year
      soon as they were married. It was an encouragement of vice; and
but he disdained to appear as well as he might. Everybody else, from
a home, a business. I wonder at the goodness of God; the generosity of
      success might, perhaps, authorise her to seek the other less
expectations. The reposeful, easy, affluent life to which her mother’s
of exquisite verdure, is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters,

black: elf-locks bristled out from beneath a white band which passed
against the cool iron bed-rail and fell into a revery. There was no
new life into which you are passing?”
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all
      addition to her own fortune. If, as I conclude will be the case,
a Bible, lay on each table, before the vacant seat. A pause of some

      soon as possible. “But what is to be done about Pemberley?” cried
At the interview, when she offered him tea, he made it a point to
ask what had caused this calamity.
      she cried; “I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she
Don’t frown. You have. And beauty is a form of genius—is higher,
      “How long did you say he was at Rosings?”
rare and brilliant plumage sang and fluttered in the trees and bushes.
what have _you_ to say?”
he longed to defend her against something and then to be alone with
living in Revelations this autumn than in England. Shall I sketch it
me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were
“Yes, sir.”
“Matter of business? I am curious to hear it.”

Chapter 57
     Her statesmen, bards and warriors raised
sunny corner in which it stood. The quiet bearing of one who brimmed

seemed wondering what sort of talk this was.
village before Gatsby began leaving his elegant sentences unfinished
invisible glass.
      to think.”
down: the fellow of it lay upon its side. He wondered at his riot of
      quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart bonnet

and scorched, the sheets drenched, the carpet round swimming in water.
beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made
Tin Woodman told her all. She thanked him for saving them and sat down
state I had found matters there, and how I had deluged him with all the
      “I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eliza.”
      circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a
every duty; and I was termed naughty and tiresome, sullen and sneaking,
      broken my heart.”
produce their pocket-handkerchiefs and apply them to their optics,
here I should die: but I was soon up; crawling forwards on my hands and
“By means of the Golden Cap I shall command the Winged Monkeys to carry
particular car.
the same. One does not jump, and spring, and shout hurrah! at hearing
      “I have already told her so once, by your desire.”
contorting the arms. Chicanery, subterfuge, had hardly a place in the
emerald at the red shambles of the circus and then, in a litter of
“It appears I come at an inopportune time, madam,” said he, “when my
      the next morning. He did not judge your father to be a person
ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge. I had often, when at home,
impossible. The room is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The

Job and Jonah.”
to quit a life she was growing thoroughly weary of.
like a dream, yet distinct and oppressive as a reality.
of you to pretend that you do. Well, she made it out of nothing. All
continued. “I am a stranger, without acquaintance in this place. I want
the other’s looked puritanical.
repose as that in mine, though of a different kind.”
      giving her beloved friend, she undoubtedly would have refrained
Another field crossed—a lane threaded—and there were the courtyard
Finally someone said it was a shame, and closed the door. Michaelis
without turning—
consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on
daresay, is fond of you. I have always noticed that you were a sort of
separation from him with care of the children. She would give him

      “Ah!” said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, “then she is better off
“But it is such a little thing!” he said, with a deep reproach. “Less
“he was the first to lay his wishes upon us. As his bride could not
      to believe would be well attended to; and in the clamorous
could tell her of my confused adoration. But my body was like a harp
      Elizabeth—
      “Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not
crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail which he gave you of them
“What is it?”
Whittle coming up breathless at that instant, the corn-factor turned on
“We used to have a very good horse and trap at home,” said Aunt Julia
Chandler remembered (and the remembrance brought a slight flush of
is my guide; my ambition is unlimited: my desire to rise higher, to do
depths I could not tell: but there were many hills beyond Hay, and

actions, punish her body to save her soul: if, indeed, such salvation

felt every word as acutely as I had heard it plainly, and a passion of
that Lucetta had been sublimed into a lady of means by some munificent
me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse
      since you will not take comfort in mine. Believe her to be
that’s the process, I don’t value it, for it can be but of little use

air until they were over a country thickly covered with sharp rocks.
Little Chandler finished his whisky and, after some trouble, succeeded
“Is there anything else you wish for, Jane? I assure you, I desire to
      Jane in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
      considered as the rightful property of some one or other of their

I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and
attend a man bound to a wife at once intemperate and unchaste.

      “I found,” said he, “as the time drew near that I had better not
They crossed the way, entered another street, and disappeared. He
lethargy was the result of reaction from excessive and protracted
“And I shall get my brains,” added the Scarecrow joyfully.
there had been a letter from you, and that you were going to another

victims await their destiny; but you, Clerval, my friend, my

      Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister, and while they were thus

      it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was
your whistle at my expense for the lift over you have given me.”
And with that answer he left me. I would much rather he had knocked me
I was mortally afraid of its trampling forefeet
the streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her,
good man. Mary’s is a clergyman, a college friend of her brother’s,


If he does go, the change will be doleful. Suppose he should be absent
the ground. “What do you want? Money? Here it is. Don’t ever talk to me
Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm. It
face and said, ‘Child, what is the meaning of this? I do not intend to
first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength as I proceeded and
He leaped from the saddle and threw the reins to one of them. In the
“It was a person I used to know in Galway when I was living with my
      “Aye—that is because you have the right disposition. But that

be more serious than I am at the present moment.”
He made no reply, and went out of the room.
      “There is a gentleman with him, mamma,” said Kitty; “who can it
was a new experience for me, and I felt a little dizzy for a while.”
McKee. “If Chester could only get you in that pose I think he could
I need not make an absolute fool of myself. I know another way to the
      them. They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were
walking as before. Lenehan ran after him, settling the waterproof on

bristly brush, denuded me of my pinafore, and then hurrying me to the

and God-fearing Roman Catholic.”

“My dear father, reassure yourself. I love my cousin tenderly and
      the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture somebody else
Georgiana should take her own course; and she, Eliza, would take hers.”
I walked fast through the room: I stopped, half suffocated with the
possessing a few coral treasures in hips and haws, but whose best


so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him from
and tell my uncle John I am going to be married, and to whom: if I had
“Oh—wrote it himself.... Is the young man in the hotel?”
Mr. Brocklehurst resumed.
demanded Tom suddenly.
and large extremities. He gorged himself habitually at table, which
“Withdraw, then,—I consent; but remember, you leave me here in anguish.
top of the lane, with a garden before it, exquisitely neat and

thoughtless; but you would have sufficient thought for both yourself

the world had become wonderful to my eyes—too wonderful, perhaps, for
perspiration appeared on her upper lip. Nevertheless there was a vague
some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed,
      pain; but respecting his abilities, and grateful for his

I felt my soul receding into some pleasant and vicious region; and
“Joe, bring the plank and lantern; here’s somebody that’s lost his way.

“Yes, Aunt Reed. How are you, dear aunt?”
“And did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious, grasping man?”


      to. How soon any other wishes introduced themselves I can hardly

spring.

      rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
      say he had heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage,
your head further about me; but tell me the name of the house where we
allude to, the occurrences of the preceding night. I walked with a
     My babe lies cold....


in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the
the counter and all the clerks had turned round in anticipation of
Dick.”
      exposing his wife to the contempt of her own children, was so
“You are glad you have met me, Mr. Gray,” said Lord Henry, looking at
Indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are
it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was
more intensified even. The quivering ardent sunlight showed him the
and regular tasks and occupations were assigned me: hitherto, I had

afterwards, in listening to the sound of the piano or the harp played
      Wickham, wherever he meets him and then he will be killed, and
cannot spare you. And now you had better dress and drive down to the


“For a little while you will perhaps be as you are now,—a very little

shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the
Your cynicism is simply a pose.”
to give it to if it came. I have an idea that Gatsby himself didn’t
These words I not only thought, but uttered; and thrusting back all my
made my bed and cooked breakfast and muttered Finnish wisdom to
preparations on her behalf.
“Because you delight in sacrifice.”
underfoot I must put on my goloshes. Tonight even he wanted me to put
“Tom’s getting very profound,” said Daisy, with an expression of
out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here.”
      change horses? Oh! Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at

“I don’t want change; you know that. Take your wages.”
the temples, amidst wreathed turban folds of black drapery, vague in
      will not do for _us_. We do not suffer by accident. It does not
lived much amongst them.”
last year, hadn’t we? Don’t you remember, Aunt Kate, what a cold Gretta
Dorian heaved a sigh, and Lord Henry strolled across the room and began
“To women who please me only by their faces, I am the very devil when I
      talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money
“My dear fellow,” said Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows in surprise,
himself (all the men having a holiday), and driving to a village on the
      for talking to him, except just now and then. So, do not put
said it with such an earnest, religious energy, and because your upward
“It is very pleasant to hear this,” he said—“very: go on for another
lot; though these were no trifles.
      that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she

I must feel, or my heart will stop and my brain burst. Whatever—whoever
The bottle of whisky—a second one—was now in constant demand by all
      and it was but the other day that I recommended another young
days. I chafed against the work of school. At night in my bedroom and

sort of merry domestic dissipation. The air of the moors, the freedom
She laughed again, as if she said something very witty, and held my
      have perhaps misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short,
to buy it. I wish I had now. It belonged to Basil’s best period. Since


“Besides,” said Miss Abbot, “God will punish her: He might strike her
from nature, taken in the Vale of Morton and on the surrounding moors.
people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary
“Mr. Rochester, let me look at your face: turn to the moonlight.”
“Truly I should be ungrateful if I failed to mourn for the man who gave

tone was enough to move him, and high harmonies transubstantiated him.
time we had got past here, but I had seen that this house was empty as


those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that
friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you. Have we lost
the poor Scarecrow!”
difficulty and labour. I doubted at first whether I should attempt the
the sailor blandly. “I wouldn’t hurt her feelings for the world.”
always conducted myself well, both as teacher and pupil, at Lowood, a
expected least to behold again. He took it up in his hands and looked
himself known this curious fancy. In the seventh chapter he tells how,
windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the
sensible that the character of my interlocutor was beyond my
stood on the doorstep, with an alien, unfamiliar air about his figure

indeed. She entered into a discourse on botany with the gentle Mrs.
referred him to me for assistance. I used all despatch, and am thankful
inanition, nor stand still in despair: we have but to seek another
words like these seem to me so dull and cold? Is it because there is no

there was no other prospect of support. But Caroline Beaufort



first, eagerly soon.

      point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom—provided
Indoors she fell to conjecturing the meaning of Farfrae’s enigmatic
scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once. He spent a long time

      can dance.”
on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill. What do you
You let Harry know.”

leaned back in the comfortable though not elegant conveyance, I


real knowledge. In this mood of mind I betook myself to the

bandit; and that could only be surpassed by a Levantine pirate.”
      called out:
this horrid London again. I am sure I don’t want to.”
she said:

after dark—and this was the business time here—you stealthily crossed
got up, and saying, “I wish you good-night, sir,” in my natural and
      “How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling. “You must know
of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an
tones—still picturing her pale and spiritual aspect, her wasted face
butler that if anyone phoned word was to be brought to him at the
till now, never failed to find—all was eerie and dreary; the giants

“That won’t do. ’Od seize it, I must do a little more than that! I
to get on? Two-thirds of my income goes in paying the interest of
my younger children. Alas! I regret that I am taken from you; and, happy
chamber. He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
wax into the tray and the thumping of his own heart against his ribs.

place, abounding in jewels and precious metals, and every good thing

frequently alone with him, and keep you so continually at his side?
found that he read aloud, but at that time I knew nothing of the


at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles. I remained

To-night, at least, I would be her guest, as I was her child: my mother
poverty ensured that, no less than his past conduct. And so Elizabeth
      approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal, or
Farfrae.
lips to what I love—to repose on what I trust: is that to make a

with which she was basting a pair of chickens roasting at the fire, did
and the cars going up and down his drive. One night I did hear a
morning, and sent the note down by my own man.”
He experienced not only the bitterness of a man who finds, in looking

hourly in him a style of courtship which, if careless and choosing
have her, and will hold her.”




“You have—have you?” thought I; “there is diablerie in the business
They now turned and took a last look at the Emerald City. All they
boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian,
at a ball, and prove to him, by the gaiety of her demeanour, how little
      unassuming,” said her uncle.
sailor’s widow, was in the town; leaving it to him to say whether or
music encumbered the music-stand in the lower room and on his shelves
desire, was left alone in the cottage. When his children had departed,
    And palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss—
“Kelso’s grandson!” echoed the old gentleman. “Kelso’s grandson! ... Of
they had driven in her white car. Just as Daisy’s house had always
glared at his wife.
midst of a great meadow of poppies. Now it is well known that when
in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and
“Wish it? Why, my blessed fathers, what an ado you women make about a
      him, I will not be wishing. In short, I will do my best.”
town, and an apprehensive guess having been given as to its cause by
      might injure her in Darcy’s opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the
on my head, as if he claimed me: he surrounded me with his arm,

spirit to suggest a judicious and satisfactory response! Vain
fondness. He sees nothing attractive in me; not even youth—only a few
ringstraked-and-spotted exceptions of trade than the
daylight?”
“It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell me how you left
      general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the
An instinct toward his future glory had led him, some months before,
      looked in her face.
small change. That is the worry. Women, as some witty Frenchman once
restaurants on little pig sausages and mashed potatoes and coffee. I

 Letter 1


depth, save by the scratchings of rabbits, since brushed by the feet of
      them.
  Chapter 7
reached the environs of Geneva.
reached the house, and knocked at the kitchen-door. An old woman

Elizabeth-Jane remembered what he had once attempted; and trembled.
“Hardly,” was the answer. “I have called it insuperable, and I speak

There was nothing I could say, except the one unutterable fact that it
had a sore head and a fur on my tongue. You’d want to knock about a bit
her.”
      say how happy she was, though Mrs. Bennet’s sour looks and

my immortal part to Him without any misgiving. God is my father; God is
now for the first time really show itself to Elizabeth-Jane, though her
intensifies it. We can have in life but one great experience at best,
to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon
      the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary
pull it off all right. All at once the idea struck him that perhaps
      spirits; or in other words, to dwell without interruption on

      ladies were to be within.
were such as to inspire a fleeting love at first sight, she dressed
“Because I want to read your countenance—turn!”

      I am not one of _them_. I hope I never ridicule what is wise and

“Well, I have twice done you a wrong which I regret now. One was in
activity with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of
Besides the buzz of the fly there was not a sound. He looked about—at
with Bessie when both sat sewing in the nursery one night, after I was

loved them to adoration; and to save them, I resolved to dedicate
little affair, Henchard nearly forgot it; except once now and then
His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature
will come and have tea with you. That will be just as pleasant.”
had ever fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could
two natures rendered, the one intolerably acrid, the other despicably
give it, a correct idea of the exterior of Miss Temple—Maria Temple, as
IX.
handkerchief twitched in her fingers. When the clock struck six, he got
      to Elizabeth; and from all Bingley’s connections her brother was
“We have surely lost our way,” he said, “and unless we find it again in
packet next met his gaze. He knew there had been something of the
he left the house again.

“Barbara,” she said to the servant who answered it, “I have not yet had
wakes up about six or seven. Will you rest yourself here an hour, Miss,
      than her displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by


“You were charming last night. The little duchess is quite devoted to

“That was very false economy,” remarked Mrs. Fairfax, who now again
How this woman divined things! Yet she had not divined their whole
He waited outside the drawing-room door until the waltz should finish,
from under a twitching forehead. I turned my eyes away again.
life. That was enough.

air brought in the feel of imminent autumn almost as distinctly as if
didn’t. He supposed he forgot to, that’s all. When he came outside

      Mr. Bingley himself, Elizabeth withdrew to Miss Lucas; to whose
Three Mariners—whose two prominent Elizabethan gables, bow-window, and
and moved sullenly onward down the pavement till he came to the bridge
never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by
river higher up amongst the willows at Blackwater, to get rid of it in
“Your family is perfectly well,” said Mr. Kirwin with
tone:
’ee.”
tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon finished; in a few
my saucer, I did not choose to consider.

very much to bear while it has lasted. All is owing to my defects, I
others, and had wandered far; so far that we lost our way, and had to
tool-basket, cleaned up his old hay-knife and wimble, set himself up in
They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face. It’s nigh
began to wander about the far end of the field, aimlessly.
remind the public that we are not savages. With an evening coat and a
to the poorhouse.”
school. When she came to the age of marriage she was sent out to many
Lowood, that my spirits rose at the view. Externals have a great effect


figure of a woman blocked out the light from the office door. She was
Earl Muldoon, brother to that Muldoon who afterward strangled his
      behaviour to their guests. Darcy said nothing at all. Mr. Bennet,
will soon return to England.”
      beauty entirely behind. He could number the fields in every
something of that kind. Certainly. I remember the whole thing as if it
      “I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with
He jumped up in an impulse, kicked off his slippers, and went with a
street. He dragged it aside and entered a long low room which looked as
St. John is unmarried: he never will marry now. Himself has hitherto
throbbing with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his
      After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to enquire if Mr.
If I _do_ go with him—if I _do_ make the sacrifice he urges, I will

much had he written away? The men rose to their feet to play the last
younger urged their services on the agitated fair ones.
will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy! My life will flow quietly

      probably not go—and, at another word, might stay a month.”
and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now
      Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for
      who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths,
record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more

      Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you:”

“Michael Henchard have busted out drinking after taking nothing for

of his dignity in public opinion by marrying so comparatively humble a
picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times,
      and relieve the poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride—for he is
      Elizabeth’s thoughts it was never absent. Fixed there by the
      giving them a hint to be gone.
married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason, daughter of Jonas Mason,

“You are mad. What have I done to you?”
the girl beside me, tightening my arms. Her wan, scornful mouth

laughed in musical echo to his pleasantry, swaying their bodies to and
something should occur which might alter my determination. It was
      are few neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with

books and ornaments on the consoles and chiffonnières. We obeyed, as in
A rather numerous company appeared within, seated at the long narrow
was about her. There were neat fences at the sides of the road, painted
      one? You are very ill.”
After midsummer they watched the weather-cocks as men waiting in
end and that I am at length free.”
      “We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to

in my life. You said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that

use making him take the pledge: he was sure to break out again a few
become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities
“That’s right. You were with Nick here.”
fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in
“Come here and let’s have your name. Look out now. I want to get his
This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
me. “Thank God!” he exclaimed, “that if anything malignant did come

married life at Weydon Fair was unrecorded in the family history. It
began the creation of a human being. As the minuteness of the parts
muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable
and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but
      other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.
“Him? Who are you talking about?” she said wildly.
tools—at the stove where the furmity had been boiled—at the empty
the Green hurrying for fear Corley should return too soon. When he



“Mrs. Reed, my uncle’s wife. My uncle is dead, and he left me to her
“Please don’t!” she interrupted helplessly. “Please let’s all go

mullioned windows of the same material, markedly out of perpendicular
The latter, who remained as fixed in the arm-chair as if she had been
seemed odd, she willingly volunteered to go up and inform the master
shirtfront pressed against my arm, and so I told him I’d have to call
nowhere. All was obscurity. Were the inmates retired to rest? I feared
years was not absolutely certain of her existence. No one saw her: they
MY DEAR MR. HENCHARD,—Don’t be surprised. It is for your good and mine,
“Oh! I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in ... well, in the

American notion? I won’t mince matters. I feel you would be invaluable
light in the dressing-table, and the door of the closet, where, before
again.”
milk and bread she had prepared for me, wrapped up some biscuits in a
      Lydia—the humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all,
      presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy

      off every arrear of civility to Elizabeth.
people make me do things that everybody knows can’t be done? It was
“And here’s a hand, my trusty fiere,

gentle and gradual: my mind is at rest. I leave no one to regret me
well let ye know, as you were in a difficulty, and they were harrd upon
of hers …
utterly fantastic, and for a moment I was sorry I’d ever set foot upon



all my life was awake and astir in my frame: and as soon as the sun
The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise—she leaned slightly
A second pause.

dangerous to the thoroughfare and when I approached to draw near she
Wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the
make out the subject of a picture on the wall, when the door opened,
time you leave work—just before the sun goes down. Please come that

tremble in the wind, he shook. The dead leaves that were blown against


pushed through the still gathering crowd, passing a hurried doctor,
“Happen an hour and a half.”
      enough—I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening
“We thought of going away,” interposed Lucetta, looking at Farfrae

affliction of Abel’s was productive of much inconvenience. For two
“All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?”
ourselves—such a friend ought to be—do not lend his aid to
frocks—they are almost like poor people’s children! and,’ said she,
“What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain? Are you, then,
spoke in pain and woe, wildly, eerily, urgently.
hopeful, or subduing did it inspire; only a grating anguish for _her_

      easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks, and when
abundance of good things, and a bloom came upon her cheek. Perhaps,
“Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry. I was
      prepossessed in her favour. Bingley was ready, Georgiana was
made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit
you. I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the
“Not for a single minute.”
“Why not?”
rippling and fluttering as if they had just been blown back in after a
For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to understand.
      “And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma’am?”
Elizabeth’s heart concerned the young man who had caused this damage to
be happy than dignified; and I ran after him—he stood at the foot of

connection.
      which then poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of
“O, to tell you the truth,” retorted Gabriel suddenly, “I’m sick of my
“My seared vision! My crippled strength!” he murmured regretfully.

their man and, choosing the lesser of two evils, given their support to
Your affectionate brother,
was ignorant of his identity, and disappeared in the darkness.
or two to traverse, and then I shall cross the road and reach the

once or twice I heard them, on these occasions, utter the words _good

from any she had seen in him before. He became so absorbed in the


“I’m not?” Tom opened his eyes wide and laughed. He could afford to
ever again believe in human goodness? Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as
      great self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous
relation to Farfrae and Lucetta overshadowed all kindred ones. He went
turned over the pages, his eye fell on the poem about the hand of
      eye towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elizabeth,
enveloped in a costly velvet shawl, trimmed with ermine, and she wore a
to make it so: nor of rest; do not turn slothful.”
There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed
commendations of Miss Scatcherd on the performance. It was English
describe that sermon: but it is past my power. I cannot even render



themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph. Why not
present.
“Good-bye, and thank you very much,” returned the girl; and the Monkeys
bearing: he stood still at a little distance from her; she could not
had confided her history to, told her my claim to her was a mockery,
it. I so dreaded a reply that would crush me with despair. To prolong
to dance she had made a mistake of some kind. In her simplicity she did
idea of some Israelitish princess of the patriarchal days; and such was

Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square. To him, as to many others, Dorian
as soon as he saw him, that a scheme of the Council for setting him up
      highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable
burning in some; we went up a broad pebbly path, splashing wet, and
with candles.

“A lady of the name of Templeman, I believe, sir,” said his informant.
preternatural voice to comfort me, or elicit from the gloom some haloed
it all?”
      not written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by
      without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she
“And yet they say he wasn’t much of a theologian,” said Mr Cunningham.
sinner, at least, there was to be no joy in heaven. He cursed himself
upon her head. Then she stood upon her left foot and said slowly:
and lovely children; you may be happy. Heaven bless you and make you so!

older than this particular day of June.... If it were only the other
if inquiring of herself whether there should be confidence. The lady’s
      instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley’s name had
Hatches, crossing the stream at their head by a narrow plank-bridge.
When he gained the crest of the Magazine Hill he halted and looked
nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in

where meantime was the hapless owner of this wreck? In what land? Under
uttered the word of belief and submission. When Mrs Kernan came into
the latter he stopped on the second night, not only to rest, but to
was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed
      blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his _making_
“Nor am I.”
there are no stars and the moon is in travail. Mysticism, with its

voyage. Why did you keep silent like this?”



asked. “Perhaps it may be got over—explained away?”
hot-tempered man—a little proud—perhaps ambitious; but not a bad man.”


      illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering
Dorothy ran down and helped the Scarecrow to his feet, and the Lion
      plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant female, intending
      shocking to send her away! And there are several of the young
but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for
of car it was!”
itself, with a desire, as I evidently saw, of drawing me out. What
“Good morning, old sport. You’re having lunch with me today and I
you.”
Henchard had been mayor here, I came back, and called at his house one

Gabriel, leaning on his elbow, looked for a few moments unresentfully

      respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far

      “The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential

way to Kansas.
pronounced me “fair as a lily, and not only the pride of his life, but
lower lip with three childishly white front teeth.
asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches
      mildness, declined interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with
But when the Woodman entered the great Throne Room he saw neither the
      an introduction; but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to

------------------------------------------------------------------------
heartless creature in existence: and _I_ know your spiteful hatred
      It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even
it dawned on my soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to
      formerly, persuaded Elizabeth, that if left wholly to himself,

admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was
I wondered what they were going to do the first evening a change of
      continued in the parlour repining at her fate in terms as

“I shall keep it, just the same,” said the Witch, laughing at her, “and
“Because,” said Lord Henry, passing beneath his nostrils the gilt

nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should point them
womankind. Henchard’s mouth changed a little, and he continued to turn
“Well, we’re almost the last tonight,” said one of the men sheepishly.
the churchyard wall and the whole mountainous load went over, two of
following her.
Mr. Rochester’s mistress; delirious with his love half my time—for he
It never occurred to me that you would refuse. I see now that you were
As I was going upstairs to fetch my portfolio and pencils, Mrs. Fairfax


was dead. How he died, God knows!—they say he killed himself.”
As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the library opened and
“But you feel solitude an oppression? The little house there behind you

ideal as I shall never meet again. This is the face of a satyr.”
carking accidents of her daily existence could be evaded before the
I got off the train.
“His seed shall orphans be, his wife

eastward in long, silvered columns. The moon shone peacefully.

“Perhaps you are right.... Besides, I have never told you my name. It

“No,” stammered Elizabeth, arousing herself from a reverie. “I forgot,
      “My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument
“Indeed, that’s true,” said my aunt. “And I’m sure now that he’s gone
or registering wrongs. We are, and must be, one and all, burdened with

“Stupid? O no!” said Farfrae gravely. “It will revolutionize sowing

      Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her
better; I never lived amongst fine people but once, and I was very
      himself?”
coming now, and to meet him will save some minutes of suspense.”
passionate experience. Its aim, indeed, was to be experience itself,
A woman opened it just far enough to look out, and said, “What do you
and cuts out—for we make our own clothes, our frocks, and pelisses, and

principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and
answer.
her sign of approval. When we are happy, we are always good, but when
courses. As soon as she could she excused herself and went out after

      were fixed on her with most painful sensations, and she watched
One, much bigger than the others, seemed to be their leader. He flew
“For the handsome sum you forwarded to me as a plaster to the wound I
      and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was
They locked up the office, and the young man followed his companion
not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His
indirectly conscious of this; she had rung the bell, and was bending
“She is still _décolletée_,” he answered, taking an olive in his long
depth of my sorrow? All that I should express would be inadequate and

me. She was a hired nurse, the wife of one of the turnkeys, and her



      “It may perhaps be pleasant,” replied Charlotte, “to be able to
undoubtedly one’s schoolboy days and that he would give anything to be
point of view. Was it not Gautier who used to write about _la
and friendship? I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way

There was I, then, mounted aloft; I, who had said I could not bear the

loses one’s own. In good society that always whitewashes a woman. But
round and see you to-morrow, or next day. Make my excuses to Lady
when she came to see me last week, that she would not like a little one
take the message indoors, and Whittle had not been supposed to do so on
Elizabeth-Jane looked confounded for a moment, knowing she had been
live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would

driving a car?”

so yaller and freckled, do ye mind?”




Narborough, pretending to listen to the duke’s description of the last
another a Lion. None of them is fit to work, so you may tear them into

upon their faces as they advanced. Taking up the board that had lain in
over and Maria looked forward to her evening out. The kitchen was spick
“Jane, you will wonder at us and our mysteries,” she said, “and think


I did so; a brief examination convinced me that the contents were less
all, to open my inward ear to a tale that was never ended—a tale my
of the air sounded deep and full.
I could not find any sixpenny entrance and, fearing that the bazaar


away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to do was to rush out
then in the Church they don’t think. A bishop keeps on saying at the
and not to live here with gentlemen’s children like us, and eat the
say—
And the Lion would answer, “No. If you come in this yard, I will bite

      genteel, pretty kind of girl. She asked her, at different times,
tall stick, where you found me. He and his friend soon after walked
His form was of the same strong and stalwart contour as ever: his port
      “Indeed I have, sir,” was her answer. “She is a great deal too
“Jimmy always liked it better down East. He rose up to his position in
surface seemed to be quite undisturbed and as he had left it. It was


that they had an appetite; and they inquired of the woman for the
Corley’s stride acknowledged the compliment. The swing of his burly
Casterbridge,” he said.
It was a wet and windy afternoon: Georgiana had fallen asleep on the
She took a new needleful of thread, waxed it carefully, threaded her
“A good deal.”

Rochesters by the mother’s side, or at least my husband was; he was a

      were carried on in a different manner; but there is something
describe: his sensation of a few hours before on Grattan Bridge, for
      laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving. Mr. Collins
which their features grew disarranged and one-sided, whilst the heads
Prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a
The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case stood, with

But you are ill; even now you tremble; you are unfit for agitation of any


annual fair that was held thereon. The spot stretched downward into
a union between his cherished stepdaughter and the energetic thriving
consolation of your father. Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to


King of England? Didn’t Parnell himself....”
looked up.
have altered.”
      figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction was followed
      for better things. Let us flatter ourselves that _I_ may be the
sent off for a doctor. While Elizabeth was undressing her she recovered
waiting for the auction to be over. Others crowded round the swinging
for the vacations, she will, with your permission, spend them always at
who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care.
“But I’m in no hurry. They can wait. I don’t fancy tying myself up to
“It is not.”
which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and


“Eighteen years,” said the man. “Why do you ask me? What do years

to address her, for I wished to know what account had been given of the
talked—her brown hand waved a jaunty salute as she melted into her
lock of the door before I recollected myself. I then paused, and a
beast could wish a pleasanter home.”
charm of the hour lay in its approaching dimness, in the low-gliding
“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow? It is an admirable place for
VI
often, like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter
“_He_ is the second man of that story she told me!”
It was by no means with the oppression that would once have accompanied
put a few brains into his head,” she replied.
“Who did you get?” asked Mr Lyons.
ground—starve him out. I’ve capital, mind ye, and I can do it.”
      meet.
“Somewhere about here, sir, ain’t it?” he asked huskily through the
      the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good
      not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there
to be withdrawn: try again.”

they were none of them nearly so large and brave as you.”
      “To yield readily—easily—to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no
knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which
English mind. Still she had her merits; and I was disposed to
      pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable
of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion
      sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his
longer; but it was with amazement that she regarded the familiar
      will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their
“Yes, you are right: do sit down.”
the darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh

“Decay fascinates me more.”
for the unstained purity of his boyhood—his rose-white boyhood, as Lord
“Well said, forehead; your declaration shall be respected. I have
dressed in a suit of greenish-black and wore what we used to call a
told him he had to get out. The day after he left Daddy died.”  After
was deep in proportion to his magnitude. He snuffed round the prostrate
Reed and Master Reed, because Missis kindly allows you to be brought up

affair. Someone, kind or curious, took her in his car and drove her in
“She bit me,” he murmured. “She worried me like a tigress, when
his old form, and his joints worked as well as ever. To be sure, there
for Christmas,” or “Candlemas,” as the case might be.
excepting in this—that the business be not carried on in my

suit me. They meet all kinds of crazy fish.”

post-chaise, with horses ready harnessed, and driver seated on the box,

That night I slept badly. In the morning I was first-comer to the
docile horses pulling a tramload of business people up the hill. All
she, shall suffer; the murder I have committed because I am for ever
but I heard a voice somewhere cry—
degree of tranquillity; and when I considered what had passed at the
sense, and was for that very reason all the more dangerous. It was the
the little old woman as her only friend.
horrors that you do there don’t affect you. If in some hideous
Whatever menaced, harassed, warned,
smiles of consolation. But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my

after home.
God waits only the separation of spirit from flesh to crown us with a

hand—it was his unsocial custom to read at meals—he closed it, and

  Chapter 41
and amuse me.”
His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
with portions of something, I knew not what, arranged thereon, and a
notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely
We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few days at
Chapter 43
are tempted to err, Miss Eyre; remorse is the poison of life.”
“Yes.” And having forgotten the momentary mystery of Henchard’s seeming
ideas, was, I was sure, the best and most reassuring for him in this
why he had been so diffident.
      mend pens remarkably well.”
thought I caught a glance, heard a tone, beheld a form, which announced
      attributed her excessive commendation of her master, soon led
      he would return no more. Lady Catherine might see him in her way
wretched. Of course, you would have treated her kindly. One can always
been empty for a year or two while before that interval its occupancy
sir: it belongs to you; and with you it would remain, were fate to
“When can you come?”
freezing spell. When he said “go,” I went; “come,” I came; “do this,” I
      Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards a
      Charlotte Lucas, whom she had not seen for a week, she was soon
      friend Lady Catherine to know me, I am persuaded she would find
But it appeared to Dorian Gray that the true nature of the senses had
hurdle; that’s the way o’ Weydon-Priors.”
his heart.
      are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their
the sun—or wait a minute—it’s just the opposite—the sun’s getting
his hat off, and waved it round his head. I now ran to meet him.
Dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at
name!” He went out at the door and shut her softly in, and she heard
“It passes me!” she continued; “but no doubt it is true since you say
to push the raft through the water.

intercourse of my fellow-creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but
      mention that gentleman. Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
that house might, if he liked, make an alliance with the best. He
the chestnut-walk which ran along the south wall of the town. Each had

“O Michael! because of him—what other reason could there be? I thought


like?”
      avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental
      “And we mean to treat you all,” added Lydia, “but you must lend
people, a little quiet and serious, but still very nice people to live
was, smiles played over his face, joy dawned on his forehead: his
bestowed? I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my
As her mother did not reply Elizabeth-Jane’s mind reverted to the words

accepting the standard of one’s age. I consider that for any man of
“There!” cried the milkmaid angrily. “See what you have done! My cow

upstairs.


road again,” remarked the Lion.
be useful to you, than I did in your state of proud independence, when
      neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent
      from sister to sister, demanding their congratulations; and when
appearance just now.
some other way! I shall be killed if—”
Kearney’s musical career was ended in Dublin after that, he said. The
impression, that he was a person of some undefined consequence, had
I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, “I believe I am;
      alone. That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force
      Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from

“Of course I cannot understand it,” he said. “If your heads were

length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and
finished,” he cried at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in
“Not exactly.”
clan, and we have a tradition that we’re descended from the Dukes of
slowly widening on the table, one would have said that the man was

to money—he really had a great sum under his control. Ségouin, perhaps,
immediately have left him; but something worked within me more strongly

“Show her into the library, of course,” cut in the “angel girl.” “It is
      stairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this.
      also, and, holding out a letter, which she instinctively took,

was continually breaking through his punctilious manner in the shape

with the purpose of arriving as soon as possible at some public-house

chimneys, attics, and roofs invisible, Elizabeth, almost with a lover’s
troubled with a haunting fear that if I handled the flower freely its
had the merit of fitting to a nicety—and adjusted my clean white
womankind in general was intensified by this suppliant appearing here
room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after. This professor was very

“That I’m sure we won’t!” she said earnestly. “I—wish you wouldn’t go
“Shake me off, then, sir,—push me away, for I’ll not leave you of my
sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.’


funeral, this thy dirge!” As I said these words, I perceived in the
from the momentum of its run. The front was broken by a line of French
fellows of the choir to strike up a tune; and what with that and this
done that. Still, it was his own picture. He knew it, and he felt as if

crash—all fell. He was taken out from under the ruins, alive, but sadly
“What a low, vulgar girl!”
      last letter had never reached her. I enquired after their
Adèle and I had now to vacate the library: it would be in daily
thousand pounds, the sum in question, divided equally between the
lady got up and promptly and kindly came forward to meet me.
Though all I have rushed o’er
course of study too severe for a child of her age: I took her home with
candlesticks out of the chapel and wrote out the notice for the
science of words or letters.
directions, and intimated that he should call again the next day, he
On the evening of the day on which I had seen Miss Scatcherd flog her
things straight and neat on the toilet table, I ventured forth.
“Quite right, Gabriel, quite right,” she said. “You can’t be too

“Just to comb out this shaggy black mane. I find you rather alarming,
“I daren’t, Mr. Gray. Why, she invents hats for me. You remember the
himself to accept her will, in this as in other matters, as absolute

his cigarette-case.

black rivulets. A humorous suggestion was made that she sing the notes
a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should
doubtful or suspicious.”

“Please say that Mr. Carraway wants to see him.”
Yes—and yet I shudder. Alas! If I join St. John, I abandon half myself:
have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him
climax, surprised this set of worthies, who were only too prone to shut
to do him some good, if I could.
friendless solitude.
spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection. I lighted the
chair to stand up. When he stood up he was tall and of great bulk. He
unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of
guilty there is no peace. The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is
“I forgot to ask you something, and it’s important. We heard you were
recently taken place.
      character, but said nothing.
in her voice; “don’t—don’t be cruel! I loved him so much, and I thought
paragraph attentively. Then he drank a glass of water, pushed his plate
      some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley,
presently.
branches of a tall tree.

was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as
a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of
follow his mind into its secret places. This portrait would be to him
again alluding to the plan. That you have done so, I regret—for your
wilfully injure you.”
as heralds of summer. It was drawing to an end now; but the evening was

call at that comparatively late hour. The dining-room was almost under

      see how he bore it, and was not without the expectation of his
“Dear me,” said the Voice, “how sudden! Well, come to me tomorrow, for


“It came down gradually, and I was not hurt a bit. But I found myself


“Then what should we call you, Harry?” she asked.
blinds, the face appeared to him to be a little changed. The expression


are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor, and my virtues will
sad horns around the floor.
“No: Adèle is not answerable for either her mother’s faults or yours: I

that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate

      which particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from _you_.”
fingerless glove on her knee. When I had finished she told me without
rate, had escaped that. Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils
mine? Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his
written there.”
by him as a new pleasure—an unhoped-for relief. Reserved people often
“But you two are my visitors to-night; I must treat you as such.” She
hall, and recommended him to the care of John’s wife, and the

atone for the lack of mere personal attractiveness, that, in looking at
there more than a century and a half before. It was here that Charles
      the lady.”
      indeed had gone to her on their first arrival in London, and had
laugh. The feet of the dead Witch had disappeared entirely, and nothing
      disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us.”
“O, do go, Gabriel,” she cried. “I’d love to see Galway again.”
“He was a very good man, sir; I could not help liking him.”
“Be not far from me, for trouble is near: there is none to help.”

“Speak! But if you look up and smile with that countenance, I shall
she let her eyes linger solicitously on his face.

I read these words over and over again: I felt that an explanation
accounting for them.
don’t know what you are talking about; you misjudge me again: it is not

      milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad
until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I


I remembered that, after a day of bodily fatigue and mental anxiety, I
it, any more than I shall get it of you: which I do not at all

“Mrs. Farfrae wrote that!” said Nance Mockridge. “’Tis a humbling thing

sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her. It was much harder to
      surprise?”
probably like them better.”
side—that’s clear and certain.”

      “Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you.”
things to say to him! I wanted again to introduce the subject of Grace
history, which must have come sooner or later in any circumstances, it
Chapter 38
after night I had passed the house (it was vacation time) and studied
bowing her head towards me. The light from the lamp opposite our door
      “With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will
      elegance of their family party at Pemberley.
forgot her fancy. “Well,” said the lady, a little of the whiteness of

Aunt Julia smiled broadly and murmured something about compliments as
You shall be Mrs. Rochester—both virtually and nominally. I shall keep
      himself.
The muscular hand broke from my custody; my arm was seized, my
      spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion
her, and her cupboards opened; and little things a’ didn’t wish seen,
      When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension,
mutiny, I observed careful obedience to St. John’s directions; and in
consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall. Hypocritical fiend!
candle to the door of Elizabeth-Jane’s room, where he put his ear to
the duty of those charged with their education to conceive for them an
stay? There it is, flat and plain. You can see that it isn’t all
me.
  Chapter 46
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world.”

called, ain’t it?” she yelled after him.
my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle, I abhorred myself. I
of some adventure. I felt that this grey monstrous London of ours, with
Chapter 36
      depended; but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge
seen, are never remembered; and her husband, a red-cheeked,
and I hope will do something for me. I shall return through
handed round; those who liked took a draught of the water, the mug
once had it fallen flat. For years and years it had gone off in
curious crowd around there all day with little boys searching for dark
and visions were so intricate that she no longer saw the white pillows


      quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode
“That shows we shall agree. Then can you come to-day? My house is so
mass of a crag, or the rough boles of a great oak, drawn in dark and
we might meet Father Butler or someone out of the college; but Mahony

Princess, who stopped short as she saw the strangers and started to run
had gone to the stable and put the horse into the gig; while doing so


      subject, by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it

representations, and they entered the furmity booth forthwith.
her cheek.
Little Chandler’s thoughts ever since lunch-time had been of his
wished to marry Miss Ingram?”
followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly
breakfast-room was covered with plates on which lay yellow streaks of
      Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the
      yourself.”
doing. I always want to forget what I have been doing. I came in at
_Café Chantant_ were written in coloured lamps, two men were counting
      we meet; it is enough to know they are discovered. I have seen



      be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends
      still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the
philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on

      of something else.”
An oath broke from his lips. “I don’t care for myself,” he exclaimed,
again instantly in the deep drift of cloud. The wind fell, for a
not, at least at the commencement of the night, cold.

“_The Lass of Aughrim_,” she repeated. “I couldn’t think of the name.”
Would she laugh? Would she take it as a joke? All eyes met her with a
to have a feeling of defiance, of scornful solidarity between Gatsby
      “True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well,

teaches history and grammar, and hears the second class repetitions;
and outsiders. Jack Mooney, the Madam’s son, who was clerk to a
      pleasant that she should go downstairs herself. On entering the
East End? I assure you he would be quite invaluable. They would love
of him anywhere. So then the clerk suggested to try the chapel. So then
sandwiches, which were a complete supper in themselves. I wanted to
“’Twas a cannibal deed!” deprecated her listeners.
“You don’t understand,” explained the criminal. “I wasn’t driving.
      shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of
face, bending over me with strange pity. This idea, consolatory in
      and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been

“The Isle of Man!” he said. “Go to London or Paris: Paris, for choice.
      settled. But with such a father and mother, and such low

Frankenstein;
jacinth, and in the romantic history of Alexander, the Conqueror of
      the ill-natured attack, she presently answered the question in a

      necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected that
stranger. He manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for
“She said, ‘Put away that dee lantern,’ she says.”
shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous
all the life from the verse. It made the passion unreal.
“If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,” he urged me.
_former_, for now he seemed corrected of them) had their source in some
his brown loaf. As soon as I was out of sight of his house, I sat down


      months’ acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.
      you send me full powers to act in your name throughout the whole
He waved his hand toward the bookshelves.
“That seems a hint to us that he is still here.”

St. John smiled slightly: still he was dissatisfied.
      testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the
      “Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens,


awkwardness, crookedness, and obscurity of the passages, floors, and
Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the
of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to
senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and


steadily.

name, and stated that the intentions of the Council had been changed.
“Tell me, Lily,” he said in a friendly tone, “do you still go to
“Basil, this is extraordinary! I must see Dorian Gray.”
below.

      Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered. Such a
I forget that when I came here ’twas he enabled me to make a footing
unsophisticated hearts: I promised them that never a week should pass
me? I think it is rather vain.”
even some little freedoms and trivialities into which she was apt to
“And when did you find time to do them? They have taken much time, and
      Gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to
bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind. I
his room—watching the sunrise; hoping I should soon come to say I would
followed the Commissioner’s words, and the meeting dispersed. When they
      once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other
“I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence
“For fun, perhaps.”
And dangerous as the foamy race
place of rest. The country in the neighbourhood of this village
“Oh! anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often,” cried Lord
      whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be hastily
declined: she was about to set. Not liking to sit in the cold and

Lenehan laughed quietly.
a degree of energy: without it, it would be difficult to proceed. The
on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear


back; his eyes were closed. Mr. Rochester held the candle over him; I
question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and
reproach of my dependence had become a vague sing-song in my ear: very
an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to ‘The


      “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of
vestibule; none of them wore evening dress. She passed by with her
passing through his mind pleasant visions of the hiring successes of


overlaid with black glazed canvas. At his back he carried by a looped
firesides. Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come
peal, the same low, slow ha! ha! which, when first heard, had thrilled
other feeling; and loud as the wind blew, near and deep as the thunder
better than I did when Bessie saw me; I had more colour and more flesh,
which movement she accomplished by rolling herself round, as a cask is
“Well, I can’t help going to see Sibyl play,” he cried, “even if it is
But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew
In less than a quarter of an hour, Dorian Gray was galloping down the
      the expense of their dear friend’s vulgar relations.
in which one must fall.”
nothing political in writing reviews of books.
smell of nitric acid in the room. But the thing that had been sitting
favour to her husband.
that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long
in the House of Commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely
human being. Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless;

      entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced
the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one
me into the hall, he told me to make haste and put something dry on,
water’s edge.
him; he saw the mounted images, and knew what it all meant.

problem of her position at Thornfield and questioning why she had not

reached the head of my class; Miss Miller had praised me warmly; Miss
and carried about with me my eternal hell; yet still a spirit of good
      not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be
      of this business, I will immediately give directions to
the tints of the flowers, seemed strangely faded: I put both plate and
Then the butler, behind his shoulder:
      added he, stopping in his walk, and turning towards her, “these
disturb his tranquillity. I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge
“No, this afternoon. I happened to find out that you’re taking Miss


such a novel idea. Then he mumbled good-night and went out. Gabriel

conversation took place between him and his father, and the young
think they say—but what is that?”

“I told you the real reason.”
into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my

      concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so
sorts at dinner.”
get tired. I’ll tell you a secret,” he continued, as he walked along.

Don’t spoil it by renunciations. At present you are a perfect type.
affixed the seals without an impression, it never occurring to him that
was still gasping for breath. “Where shall we put it, sir?”
affectionate lines while yet beyond speaking distance. “I suddenly
side; a door is soon fastened, and it is as well to have a drawn bolt
your will? Ah—you have many many secrets from me!”
After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in
started on her journey.
dress and the crunch of leather boots, and Tom and Daisy were back at
heart, and I knelt down at the bedside, and offered up thanks where
tell him everything.
“Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief. My work
      write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
      seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his
the passage back to the dormitory. I was not reprimanded for leaving my
the child and began to be alarmed. He counted seven sobs without a
across the room and rang the bell for tea. “You will have tea, of
      know how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had
strange conjectures.
worshipped you. I grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke. I wanted
      affected as to make it almost impossible for her to appear

a little blond Londoner, had made a rather free allusion to Polly. The
      dear Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to



      Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not? There is no danger

to throw a mess of cold porridge into a pig trough. “Will you give me



insult.
large fire was all red and clear; the purple curtains hung rich and

uncle’s house, where she was beloved by all the family. She was

there should be no particular opposition, will ’ee accept the chair?”
      counting the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again.

“You shall go into the breakfast-room first,” said Bessie, as she
      in question but the desire of being well married; and if I were
abode. But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the information
something out of you.”

      “Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue
forgiven, Mr. Rivers, the high crime and misdemeanour of spoiling a


paused, and found that the songs, toasts, and conversation were
poor twanking woman like her—’tis a godsend for her, and hardly a pair
      unable to resist the temptation, added, “When you met us there
relative whom he had deemed somewhat a mythical personage had been
concern themselves on his behalf, he thought he owed it to his dignity
“Now I am sure you can get on your feet,” he said—“try.”
the Frozen Ocean, and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions, I
lady I live with, father—Miss Templeman.”
“Where’s your mother?”
“You must prove your identity of course,” resumed St. John presently:
“You’re just embarrassed, that’s all,” and luckily I added: “Daisy’s
      The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on
“I will send her, then, as soon as possible, Mr. Brocklehurst; for, I
      delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would
when I knew them but as mere strangers, they had inspired me with
charming.)
spilled with prodigality, tipped out at a cheerful word. The groups
      to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr.
_To Mrs. Saville, England._
      the foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully
It is an old saying that ‘all is not gold that glitters;’ and in this
“I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the girl.”
them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the
chattering and laughing, and the sun came out of the dark sky to show
gentlest genealogy; and that the germs of native excellence,
When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief.”

      his page. She could not win him, however, to any conversation; he
have given you notice to quit?”
he liked for himself?”
for me: it _was_ an incident of no moment, no romance, no interest in a
      they were married, that he was prevailed on to think as they
article, she informed me it was a covering for the altar of a new
yer side, and I thought he looked low and faltering. And I followed en
      save me a world of trouble and economy. Had it been your uncle’s

“Is it because you have the prospect of a journey before you, Jane? Is

mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as
_bric-à-brac_ shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above

me.”

organ-player had been ordered to go away and given sixpence. She
partiality.”
life everywhere, movement all day long. You could not now traverse the
“No; some unaccountable one. In short, I believe you have been trying


paintless from the rub of infinite hands and shoulders. This was the
have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries
know: you said you were not as good as you should like to be, and that


      “I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be
order, doubtless, to exhibit its contents: the gentlemen went away

grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had
“Why on earth don’t you keep your men back? Spoiled my shooting for the

moonlight.
reflect.” I paused—he stood before me, hat in hand, looking composed
energy or wit to belabour me soundly, but they insulted me as coarsely
      gentlest of accents:
the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any
inn-window tones that strangely riveted her attention, before the old
he murmured. “But I don’t know—I don’t know!”
country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them,
“What was that?” I inquired. “The picture of Oxford?”

      Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose
late.
like a nobleman’s—often not merely ready at the bank like a
June night. He came alive to me, delivered suddenly from the womb of
      feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or
and rescue her. Of course, she would fall in love with him, and he with

The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment like the
“You did not think of opening your door and looking out into the

souls is often to confer on them the first of obligations.
After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you. You
From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the

“I beg your pardon,” said Mr. Wolfshiem, “I had a wrong man.”

now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my
      and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw himself at her feet. He was
seems that even I be in Somebody’s hand!”


“I am so sorry for it all, Dorian,” said Lord Henry as he entered. “But
Tom inside.
      concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood,

      so highly in his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in
stranger knelt at the old man’s feet and would have kissed his hand,

too, heedless that her coverings had fallen about her knees, seemed
again on its benches. Mr Kernan restored his hat to its original
listening when the performance was good. No sooner had twilight, that
shaking the window-panes with the strains of “The Roast Beef of Old
      “It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you
      of either. Now seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial
Miss Ingram for acting in conformity to ideas and principles instilled
I started—it was the first word she had uttered since I came into the
opened out the situation a little, and was slowly convalescent of her

The “death car” as the newspapers called it, didn’t stop; it came out
Chapter 41

the rigorous Sibyl, for the three to wait upon her in a body.
      moment! But at least it shows that _she_ was serious on the
upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting
William.”
      congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on this happy event,

My love has placed her little hand
 And, having once turned round, walks on,
Mediterranean. There you shall live a happy, and guarded, and most
      his success were made by the latter. It had not been very great;
take a small Irish and Apollinaris. Farrington, who had definite

Grosvenor. The Academy is too large and too vulgar. Whenever I have
specially interested.
“He starved us when he had the sole superintendence of the provision
      “Yes, very different. But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon
turned away as one might have done in the actual presence of an
will, I had inquired if he knew anything of Mr. Rochester’s present
      say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am
As soon as he had spoken, the Tin Woodman began to chop, and in a short
“We will!” cried all the mice, in a shrill chorus. And then they
and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I could, in my own
it was quite badly rusted the Scarecrow took hold of the tin head and
Your dear mother! Alas, Victor! I now say, Thank God she did not live
      When to these recollections was added the development of
“I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany
I feared—or should I say, hoped?—the allusion to me would make Mr.
“Lord, do ye mind, Richard, what fools we used to be when we were
      Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner,
      that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a
deep respect. “Some trifling fancy or other of poor Susan’s, I
Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the Pentland Hills, compensated him for
Then he stretched his hand out to be led. I took that dear hand, held





forward. Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent
Nance glanced triumphantly at Henchard, and sailed into the barn; for
you’ve been doing, everything you’ve been doing. You may fool me, but

mutual advantage.”
continued their promenade along the walls till they got near the bottom
“And you do not lie dead in some ditch under some stream? And you are
beds in another place. I nearly fell out of mine; it was like a shelf.

continued in the sitting-room, and reached his ears.
and inquired of a man whom he saw unpacking china from a crate if Miss
“Leave the window open on his side, Carter; there is no wind—good-bye,
pronouncing some formula which prevented him from replying to me
but young enough in spirit to turn the moment to account. The warmth,

just as Gatsby, with hat and light overcoat in hand, came out the
“Because I have less confidence in my deserts than Adèle has: she can


“I handed the money to Katspaugh and I said: ‘All right, Katspaugh,
looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were
which asked for information and urged him to come out on the next

her hair had not lost colour it was considerably thinner than

perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; “but you are mistaken, my
In the afternoon the sun shone hot in their faces, for there were no
  Chapter 24
unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were
I had seen anything in it, more than that you were extremely

      had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were


portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not
was the next somewhat unexpected observation.
      impossible; condolence insufferable. Let them triumph over us at
dreading the blow, I mused on the disgusting and ugly appearance of him
Chapter 6
had been in his brain and in his passions. He felt that he had known
entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me:
foam; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems, that I had touched
joins the railroad and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as
      keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could find no interval

“I thank you, Walton,” he said, “for your kind intentions towards so

“But who knows?” said Ignatius Gallaher considerately. “Next year I may
adequate to so arduous an undertaking, but I doubted not that I should
desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little circumstances
quickly with fear that he would seize me by the ankles. When I reached
But just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin, and my
through the whole house, I began to feel the return of slumber. But it
view. I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but
in that attitude. Her blue felt hat would show off the bronze of her
prudence, quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the name
I would see the reflection of candles on the darkened blind for I knew
me as you have just done. But I don’t mean to flatter you: if you are
garden together and ensconced themselves on a long bamboo seat that
cousin. My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own

my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as
feeble. My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of
was now attracted by the Mayor’s so-called stepdaughter, but he was
“I will, madam. Little girl, here is a book entitled the ‘Child’s

and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness for
that person” (pointing to one of the arrangements), “or you are _that_

breast. I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman. In spite


foot and good looks.
one ever knew what it was, for he didn’t mention it. And the Scarecrow
Basil, too, had his secret. He would ask him and try.
a conscientious solicitude for Adèle’s welfare and progress, and a
companions. When the little girl saw them coming she was afraid.
worked up her mind to an appearance of courage. When she entered the

delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay
      frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself.
      augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.
      excellent walker. I shall never forget her appearance this
yourselves cowards. Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady to your
that bright May shone unclouded over the bold hills and beautiful

passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that
taking my advice; so I’ll say no more. Carter—hurry!—hurry! The sun
falls—but no one swooned backward on Gatsby, and no French bob touched

      “Well, and what news does it bring—good or bad?”
carries on today.

      Elizabeth, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well
said he would give the young man half-an-hour for his answer, and went
Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated.
candlesticks, went to the door to light him downstairs.
ciphering and mensuration. Then the wheat—that sometimes used to taste
collar; and to Dorothy they presented a beautiful bracelet studded with
“There’s another little thing,” he said uncertainly, and hesitated.
      In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was

“It is in an empty stable in the Home Farm, sir. The folk don’t like to
“Why do you call to my remembrance,” I rejoined, “circumstances of
      good humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn.

not in the grave, I could bear, I thought, to learn that he was at the
of the Heptarchy. Its arrival created about as much sensation in the
here. Jopp indifferently expressed his willingness.
senseless curiosity lead you? Would you also create for yourself and the
My own face had now assumed a deep tropical burn. I couldn’t muster up
the town. Here he was standing one windy afternoon when Durnover church
“You weren’t so nice to me last night.”

formed the habit of letting liquor alone.

      being deficient in something herself—sense or feeling.”
“Just ask her,” said Nance, folding her naked arms in such a manner
“She does not remember my short frocks at all, Lord Henry. But I

sentence. I saw by her look she wished no longer to talk to me, but
the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble
me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going to help her
five deep with throbbing taxicabs, bound for the theatre district, I


the smell of the herbs; likewise by the cats’ eyes, the ravens, the
strong enough to hold its weight. The Beast had a head like that of a

      they grow up; and he was always the sweetest-tempered, most
      indeed, such a report is in existence.”
and looked at her sharply and steadily. Then the mouth moved, and
      Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare. She is almost
about the beach that morning. Finally we came to Gatsby’s own
trees—firs, apparently, from what I could distinguish of the character
you, Lucille?”
explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a portrait of me
of the ignorance of youth. The only people to whose opinions I listen
cannot be too early to commence the task I have to fulfil,” thought I.

long enough.”
to breathe the air consecrated so lately by her presence. No,—I
There was the smile again, but this time I held out against it.
“As I exclaimed ‘Jane! Jane! Jane!’ a voice—I cannot tell whence the
fairly full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and
brilliant June morning had succeeded to the tempest of the night; and
To watch it was like looking at some grand feat of stagery from a
      have. Had not my feelings decided against you—had they been
respectable. What do you say?”

“I do not understand a missionary life: I have never studied missionary
how long have I abhorred the very thought of it, shunned it like a
said the other girl eagerly. “He doesn’t want any trouble with
returned. He wondered if he had met the men in the hall as they were
I rose up suddenly, terror-struck at the solitude which so ruthless a
these you were to brave and overcome. For this was it a glorious, for this
“And now I’ve a mind to punish you as you deserve! One word to this
and ready perceptions, his sledge-hammer directness, had often served
scarcely see my way down the ladder; the attic seemed black as a vault

half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature
“Wha’s matter?” he inquired calmly. “Did we run outa gas?”
knightly adventure. He tried to make us act plays and to enter into

your back towards me now.”
scrupulously clean, like all about her, was knitting a stocking.
of these deep surrounding shades rose high, and glared white, the
dishevelled man in pyjamas was doing liver exercises on the floor. It
it—take that.” He threw a sovereign on the table and returned to the



indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event.
first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one’s
      Captain Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did
this is mine: I am one of the few honest people that I have ever

Sitting on a low stool, a few yards from her arm-chair, I examined her
Port-Bredy at the time.”
the faith of a glance at her face, more than twenty years before, was
      questions—about her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of
together for half-an-hour before they fell asleep. I caught scraps of
The man smiled as before and said that when he was our age he had lots

harken: Have you made him any foolish promise? Gone the least bit

that Mr. Edward—_my_ Mr. Rochester (God bless him, wherever he
finding myself unsympathised with, wished to tear up the trees, spread
      objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last
of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill. Safie nursed her
they would not; but I must try.
table, with two stale, dry cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French
“Mr. Hallward, sir. He stayed here till eleven, and then he went away
reasonable, or in truth I shall again become frantic.”
accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my
with it and then spat it forth into the grate. Then he paused to judge.


      say.”
little girl.
no doubt in a somewhat crest-fallen tone.
trample down: but as his wife—at his side always, and always

cases in the police courts, had been tempered by brief immersions in
for the red jagged tear in the neck and the clotted black pool that was
on the veranda. On a chance we tried an important-looking door, and
      solicitude, an interest which she felt must ever attach her to
doubt a stranger here.”
“Don’t go so fast, Stubberd,” said the clerk.

From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city, our minds
      This room was my late master’s favourite room, and these
clan still haunted him. For a moment I suspected that he was pulling
Dorian Gray with the eyes of a sick man. His mouth twitched, and his
fifty, sixty.”

affection. There was a sense of justice in my father’s upright mind
very misery and faintness. “Michael, please don’t argue it any more!”
myself was about to sink under the accumulation of distress when I saw your
“Oh, I am so sick of the young men of the present day!” exclaimed she,
afforded then to my many questions; but a day or two afterwards I

unpunctual tears. He had reached an age where death no longer has the
they remembered how badly the Winged Monkeys had treated them before;
cried that God might strike him stone dead if ever he spoke a word to
a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from
      other particulars, and I only suspected it to be Bingley from
“We have obeyed you as far as we were able. The Tin Woodman and the

“_Fin de siêcle_,” murmured Lord Henry.
hall as we passed. I would fain have spoken to her, but my hand was
The gentlemen began to talk of the accident. Mr Cunningham said that he

“Any bottles?”
As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round

owned when he was made of flesh. The Lion declared he was afraid of

      such an alliance.
pink ribbons. It always means that they have a history. Others find a
      him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
In the silence which followed Farfrae appeared only conscious of her;
this nonsense won’t do. If you don’t come along, I shall go without
She pointed to the rocking-chair: I took it. She bustled about,
monster-splinters were living things, and could hear me. “I think,
instinctive love for stories fantastic, marvelous and manifestly

“My brother in the interval was dead, and at the end of the four years

accompany them. Soon after they were gone he rang the bell: a message

believe.”

decision. She wanted her life shaped now, immediately—and the decision
      bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father, to explain
had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep
to come and see me? Joshua, Joshua, Jipp—Jopp—what was his name?”
      sorry. So imprudent a match on both sides! But I am willing to
      Mr. Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.”
Antipodes.
“They began to talk; their conversation eased me completely: frivolous,
Thornfield.

of it.

luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly
exertion. I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave way
THE DEAD
I called up Daisy half an hour after we found him, called her
    of your wife—whom you used to think of as dead so many years
The first was a tall lady with dark hair, dark eyes, and a pale and
      “I had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself—for I am
of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter. In others, drunkards
going to leave Casterbridge, Elizabeth-Jane.”

grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry. I felt, Dorian, that


to me, and I was certain he had given up the pursuit of his matrimonial
with him for about an hour.”

existence all at once spread out to a plain without bounds—my powers
countenance I saw a change: that looked desperate and brooding—that

      sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling; that had
you had brains in your head, instead of straw.”
Although I joy in thee,
“Miss Kate, here’s Mrs Conroy.”
      in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide
As on the Sunday, so on the week-days, Farfrae and Lucetta might have
this spot, and this hour, for the rendezvous, Lucetta had unwittingly
used to cry out ‘Oh you villains childs!’—and then we sermonised her on

“Ladies,” said he, turning to his family, “Miss Temple, teachers, and
this land, and when you can tell me she is dead I will send you back to
“She’s a rare one, is she not, Jane?”
hands, must be cut out. D’ye hear? We two can’t live side by

everywhere. Their number and quality made the meagre furniture that

his seamy sides. His horns were thick and tipped with brass; his two
      the like censure, is praise no less generally bestowed on you and
      She saw him start at this, but he said nothing, and she
argument broke out behind a partition, and presently a lovely Jewess

discussion afterwards.”

me; and may I be strook dumb, blind, and helpless, if I break this my

which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring

about the house, pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still
      them of, though it happened almost every day. She not
“‘Let it be right’—the very words: you have pronounced them.”
      certain true. He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very

was ready to show them to the Palace. Taking a big golden key from a
steps without raising her head any higher. While waiting thus she
He did not finish his sentence, but, seeing that Aunt Kate was out of
I caught ’ee once, if you can mind?”
man there.”
half-an-hour, while you played with Adèle in the gallery. It was a

For some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and the fat
ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. These are the sickly aims, the

the object of your fine feelings, your raptures, agonies, and so forth.
you because, you know, I’m all brown.”

“Of course it is true, Lord Henry. If we women did not love you for

towards the setting sun. I passed three days in these rambles and at
      “On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your uncle had
he indulged in an occasional loud laugh at some remark among the
town. Come on—we’re all going to town.”

justification—through any temptation—to become the successor of these

himself and with everyone else. Mr Alleyne would never give him an
jaded thoughts and the crumbs of our provisions.

cut me deep. I felt that there was some truth in it. I don’t want to

for one lonely little dame like Mrs. Fairfax to inhabit, when that lady
      with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in
      brother; but there was sense and good humour in her face, and her
a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the
charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory
      “I see what you are feeling,” replied Charlotte. “You must be
me, but you have won me to alter my determination. You seek for

carried the unknown little child: I might not lay it down anywhere,
ye out. I had been here twice before then. The first time I passed
I know no medium: I never in my life have known any medium in my
exempt from my reaction—Gatsby, who represented everything for which I
and detaining for moments the flying globes of thistledown.
or fiend. I was now in for it.

some story of her too, a critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
‘Put it,’ she said, ‘on the fourth finger of my left hand, and I am
vigorous frame of Fairfax Rochester.
he once had been master might be acting on him like an irritant poison;
beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and
his brother again and Maria said she was sorry she had mentioned the
past fortnight. How is this? I looked over the regulations, and I find
liberate you then.”

flew away with him to the Witch’s castle, where he was placed in a
indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence,
lady should look in and take an interest in us.”


spoke English, and I therefore addressed them in that language. “My
proceed with my tale.

      a most unexpected visitor. Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up with
servant, a nurse-girl, if I can be no better,” I answered.



and not the fruits of experience, sweet or bitter as they might be. Of
majority there was some truth in the scandal, which she would have to
long as he and I lived he never would forget them. I saw by his look,
amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual





“I have a way of finding out.”
“Ah—poor girl!”
the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed. The horse stumbled in a
met were ordinary and she gave them no encouragement, trying to console
The _misérables_ who would pause on the remoter bridge were of a
full of runs and difficult passages, to the hushed drawing-room. He
gore. I must see the light of the unsnuffed candle wane on my

figs, a dish of custard topped with grated nutmeg, a small bowl full of
“When did you lend him the pound?” she asked, after a pause.
and unclean. What did it matter? No one could see it. He himself would
“He was a good man—and he’s gone,” she said to herself. “I was nothing
cloths, and antique plate of gold and silver. Indeed, there were many,
me. Filled with dreary imaginations, I passed through many beautiful
      in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also,
“It is a long way off, sir.”
“I’ve got my wife locked in up there,” explained Wilson calmly.

      with me; but if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am
He sat down gloomily.
patroness was obliged to separate her from her own young ones, fearful

Surely he had begun it already. He had spared one innocent thing, at

looking at my face, from which the blood had, I daresay, momentarily
smooth, like the surface of a dish, and higher than their heads.
It was related that there still remained under the south entrance
“There’s a nice Catholic for you!” said his wife.

fat man. The car drove off and the short fat man caught sight of the
“The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s _Ruins
why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you
tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel.”
My glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape. I saw I had
from no fault of their own.”
This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I cannot consent.”

 mad act as that man did should make us all think. I cannot come down
summer sky. “Yes; horribly unjust of you. I make a great difference
stayed there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the
“But my powers—where are they for this undertaking? I do not feel them.
_artistes_. But what else could she do? She appealed to the second
      always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the
prevented, but she wasn’t on speaking terms with her family for
And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown world, I thought of
suffocated: endurance broke down; I rushed to the door and shook the

They lapsed again into silence. “You are anxious to get back to
      “When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?”

untrodden snow; and the woods, which twelve hours since waved leafy and

“Yes, sir.” Then Abel Whittle left, and Henchard and Farfrae; and
“But not explained you.”
Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder,



“You see, Mr. Henchard,” said the lawyer, another goodnatured friend,
moment their emotions breathed a much subtler essence than at other
indelibly to fix it there. The next day Bessie was sent for home to the
stained where the body had been lying, so he moved uncomfortably


and one other time when the house tipped badly, she felt as if she were
soft ground. I had on a new plaid skirt also that blew a little in the
engaged him just then; and when he met Lawyer Joyce, the town-clerk,

happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me
      They are wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are not they?”
      Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her having two
      man—he is a great friend of Darcy’s.”

own advantage to keep down the rates? He’s a prominent and respected
overhear). “On no account ought ye to have helped serve here to-night.
sought their chambers.
“But, of course,” said Mr Cunningham quietly and effectively, “our
recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete. I trod
When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I

moving the point of her new shoe: it was not her fault. Mrs Kearney

turning almost white from fear.

be dashed to pieces when the house fell again; but as the hours passed
my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of

I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
should have admired her—acknowledged her excellence, and been quiet for
off; that rumour had been mistaken; that one or both parties had
failed in my efforts to conceive a correct plan of the premises.

      two thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was
      “Your affectionate friend,
“I am thinking about a person long ago who used to sing that song.”
      the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud, to
I should have minded it in a moment,” she said. “I can mind every
“The youngster and he were great friends. The old chap taught him a
“Oh, you have been very correct—very careful, very sensible.”
red-room.”


“Oh, Basil is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit
      Collins for a few moments, he asked Elizabeth in a low voice
     The path of its departure still is free.
He walked up and down the room two or three times. Then he turned to
“Then you have some secret hope to buoy you up and please you with
from a code would be thought impossible. She was incurably dishonest.
further afield would reduce them to the necessity of camping out for
“And those are ...?” asked Lord Henry, helping himself to some salad.
      The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave
_artiste_. Farrington stood a drink all round. Weathers said he would
it did not matter now if my axe slipped, for it could not cut me. There
single woman.”
genial to be so well loved, so caressed by him.
creatures.’
autumn,—Thornfield Hall is quite a ruin: it was burnt down just about
The young woman his wife, who seemed accustomed to such remarks, acted
green color and was as white as Dorothy’s dress.
She stared at me. “Mother!” she exclaimed, “there is a woman wants me
it.”
a lonely little orphan, who leans towards her as a friend?”

“Well, then, with Miss Temple you are good?”
XLII.

out, and then I felt dark indeed.



spectacles on all the people, so that everything they saw was green.”
When I left his office the sky had turned dark and I got back to West



and was soon myself. I was in the library—sitting in his chair—he was
more and more absorbed in you. Then came a new development. I had drawn
clear. It was beautiful, but too solemn: I half rose, and stretched my
the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage. But, as if
her asking her to meet him. As he did not wish their last interview to


      nature as education. The Netherfield ladies would have had
To avoid the contingency of being recognized she veiled herself, and
will roll this head all about the room until he promises to give us
saw a boat, with a single man in it, at a short distance from the shore;


what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. I am
at this place. In contrast with the harshness of the act just ended

“All the preface, sir; the tale is yet to come. On waking, a gleam
He followed me wildly into the kitchen, closed the door, and
      the breach; but for some time I was kept back by my own doubts,
“Eh? Are you going to stand there all day? Upon my word, Farrington,
“I thought you would be revolted, Jane, when you saw my arm, and my
all certain about it. I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen
The divergence to Mellstock delayed Farfrae’s return very nearly the
where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned

little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter, that ate of his
indeed made my proposal from the idea that he wished and would ask me
      “She is a most charming young lady indeed. Lady Catherine herself
myself now. I had taken two finger-bowls of champagne, and the scene

The young lady thus claimed as the dowager’s special property,
would pass away from his lips and the gold steal from his hair. The
Dublin and Holland; and they had one child.
insurance or automobiles. They were at least agonizingly aware of the
Chapter 22
      their appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits
      difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst
poor ill-used Susan died, and when I could not bear the idea of
      Mr. Darcy’s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by
      They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some
“To whom?”
“They are, Miss Eyre, though they absolutely require a new statute:
music was not articulate. It was not a new world, but rather another
      he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed very
street to some other maid even more elevated than she.
diligences and carriages usually stopped. Here I paused, I knew not why;

be straight and manly with God. If their accounts tallied in every
      repeated a second, or even a third time. I am therefore by no
her. Of course she had to work hard, both in the house and at business.
      ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of


my falsehood as soon as you like. You were born, I think, to be my
pulses. A child cannot quarrel with its elders, as I had done; cannot
such love as Michelangelo had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann,

moments on the green, flickering, sun-lashed garden. “I owe a great
me, in these regions, the same attraction as for them—wound round my
look and mien—I forgave him all: yet not in words, not outwardly; only
the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such

that. And try to restrain the disproportionate fervour with which you

pouring down light on the silver and glass of a magnificent
      of him.”


“Miss Eyre, you are not so unsophisticated as Adèle: she demands a
that a spread of shot orange and purple silk pelisses and a cloud of
often sent for me at seven and eight o’clock, and it was yet but six.

freedom. He was dominated by the carelessness of happiness, by the high
let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is not good


      Bourgh—the former of whom was engaged in listening to Lady
My favourite seat was a smooth and broad stone, rising white and dry
the third was Mr. Rochester, on his black horse, Mesrour, Pilot
      eldest, from their recent absence, were particularly welcome, and
      But the gloom of Lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for
water-pipe.”
standing behind it.

my whip; it lies there under the hedge.”
      father’s uncommon attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very
through a foreman, Farfrae feeling that it was undesirable to come
      replied Jane; “and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing
      that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time
“Before either.”
      the sphere in which you have been brought up.”

On Sunday morning while church bells rang in the villages alongshore,

      his sister. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and Mrs.
clattering over street and road like a common mortal, but to steal into
was most respectful in his greeting to everyone in the room. He
train. That request seemed superfluous when I wrote it. I was sure
the door-post for support.

help to make Tuesday’s bread-pudding. When the table was cleared, the
“Why should I do this?” demanded the Beast.
looking up. “You are quite a stranger at Vale Hall. He is alone this
cultivation surrounding it had disappeared. I had, by cross-ways and

stammer:
that night; my solitary room no fears. At once weary and content, I

“How long did you reside with him and his sisters after the cousinship
returned.
pure unadulterated country life. They get up early, because they have
back on his head and his shoulders humped with cold, was puffing and
Because I know, or believe, Mr. Rochester is living: and then, to die

      for her might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of
“No,” answered Mr Bartell D’Arcy carelessly.
English education, together with French, Drawing, and Music” (in those
she had come, far and farther below her, and aspired to the zenith,
touch this screen, everything is over between us.”
diverted to become intimate. She alluded once or twice to her husband
      that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then
      “Hate you! I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began
ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps of the guns that
      hear of leaving Wickham. She was sure they should be married some
the week, nor once or twice in the day, but continually: every nerve I
had slipped my memory that you have good reasons to be indisposed for
But it takes time to make a raft, even when one is as industrious and
I—and the fair Lucetta was the courted of the town.... But, Ah! the
said, with a heavy sigh, “It is a bad omen, Harry, a very bad omen.”
case. He was fond of using soldiers’ obscenities: usually he came home
Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read. I


“That so, John?”
“Oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories

and meet me here the first fine day next week, and say if you are still
      money as she chooses to buy them, after they are married. And,
      occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite him to sit by
      for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lydia talked
disease—decline—and the stage it has reached, it is unlikely he will
The Monkeys had set them down near a farmhouse, and the four travelers
have an acquaintance with one of them, Mrs. Poole—”
      with as much apprehension as her father had done to his
the impetuous desire that was in him, and then the yielding mood had
      to prepare for the arrival of her master, who was coming down in

I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which issued incessantly
      place should be so generally known. I must not, however, neglect
died by my hands.”
      Lucas,” she added in a melancholy tone, “for nobody is on my

had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of _Paradise Lost_, a volume

      magistrate in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were
The lamplight struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his

own account. It was Palladian, and like most architecture erected since
“In that case, sir, Adèle ought to go to school: I am sure you will
Harry said. Was it very bad? You must tell me some other time. I think
entered?”
do?”
      myself on my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my

blue thread a long thin dragon-fly floated past on its brown gauze
befriend us, and take us up, and then find out what you did when
      supposed more than really existed. But _now_ suppose as much as
“Make yourself perfectly at home,” said the green girl, “and if you
horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she
Henchard resumed: “Then I am truly and sincerely obliged to you for the

the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us
than we fancy. Form and colour tell us of form and colour—that is all.
“May I go up and speak to her?”

still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my
      colouring with astonishment and disdain, “I wonder you took the



son and in his son’s possessions was continually increasing and now he
proposed to make her his wife. She agreed. But there was an unsuspected
allowed, “the owd maister was like other folk—naught mich out o’ t’

rot. We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the
to me, an honour is awarded where it is not merited; and consequently,
mother, then, is quite well?”
nothing related to me. I think she is poor, for she had not so fine a
pass for sterling worth—to let white-washed walls vouch for clean
by calling out cheerfully every time the planks fell:
“That a burnt child loves the fire.”
were the dominant motive of his art.”
thick bulldog face and a pair of thick short arms. When he reached the

and heard the harsh, unfeeling reasoning of these men, my purposed
against him, roused by the same sentiment of deep ire and desperate
their mother grew so restless, and said, ‘Jane, Jane,’ so many times,
... or——”
only made day before yesterday. What happened in the world before that

had carried her to this queer Land of Oz.
full of people that it was a long time before she could get herself
as her other surroundings. Toto was not gray; he was a little black

“Their father is dead?”
      us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps, Lizzy could
      enter the room. “And this is always the way with him,” she added.

      little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her resentment




“But they wrote to him?”
      They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a
      herself. On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but Jane
strange, and consequently attractive. In turning a leaf she happened to
“Safe from what, Dorian? You are in some trouble. Why not tell me what



pleasure. I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use
      “I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to

“And they will go in three days now?” I said.
laughed in an agreeable, colourless way. He was his wife’s man and not
everything!”
species were mostly directed over the parapet upon the running water
accept my pledge of fidelity and to give me yours. Jane—give it me
described by contemporary historians as stoutness. Next to her sat, on
      fears of Miss de Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or having
greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence for vice, as
resembles Fielding as an eagle does a vulture: Fielding could stoop on
      in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed

opera-glass.
      the irritation. She talked on, therefore, without interruption

to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony

for strength to amend and solace to heal.”
      miles from me; and as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.”
all, live on against my will!”
      The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly

not indoors. She has gone for a walk along the turnpike-road to
fields before my cottage, which, with the school, was distant half a
“You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you
      day, to make his proposals.
luxuriant, but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the scene.
“And—O, I know I shan’t do!”—she cried with a distressful laugh. “I
Amid the welcome confusion of cups and cakes a certain physical
“It is a long way,” I again said.
miserable fiend, to torture and death. Never will I give up my search
They took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers. The tulip-beds across
called a voice, and I hastened down. I was received at the foot of the
      felicity or domestic comfort. Her father, captivated by youth and
a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder.
before his landlady’s piano or roaming about the outskirts of the city.
“Is he a good man?”
“If he is a Beast when I go to see him, I shall roar my loudest, and so
to be handed down as men who had not strength enough to endure cold and
who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. Except, of
“Yet you poisoned me with a book once. I should not forgive that.
consistent have just as many moods as others have. The only difference
with cold. His friend asked him to tell how the accident had happened.
      and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past
         Nobly undaunted to the last,
      knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed.”
“Take a seat and bear me company, Jane: please God, it is the last meal

      Many stared—many smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr.
He looked at me fixedly, compressing his well-cut lips while he did so.

      “Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted
      what was going forward. As all conversation was thereby at an
on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered
heart?”
not believe that they had been uttered by her stepfather; unless,
candle on the corner of the dresser, took his hat from a nail, and
simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence. To him, man was a
      qualified to recommend himself to strangers?”

my history briefly but with firmness and precision, marking the dates with
her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven-sent,
      I suppose, are precisely what you are without.”
      to Wickham, and commanded herself so far as to examine the

Elizabeth-Jane spoke of Richard Newson as “father.” “Ah! I am out of
while this fierce creature is alive, and we had called a meeting to

coffin-dust. All these relics gave to the third storey of Thornfield

blancmange and red jam, a large green leaf-shaped dish with a
“Threads snap. You would lose your way in the labyrinth.”


      he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some


Irish money was to be included in the capital of the concern. Jimmy had
As a conductress of Indian schools, and a helper amongst Indian women,
      complain are never pitied.”

the coming of death that terrifies me. Its monstrous wings seem to
pleased at seeing a danger averted. “I think I may confess,” he
me”—but this time no one laughed.

frequent intemperance as part of the climate, healed him dutifully

The wind roared high in the great trees which embowered the gates; but

      and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale with great perseverance.
Henchard. He made the bull fast without, and re-entered to the succour
      “What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said she to Charlotte, “by listening
winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a straw. I saw him too; he
approaching the gate—that of Donald Farfrae. He looked up at the church
and she felt she must sit down to rest and to sleep.
During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont
Mrs. Reed and I were left alone: some minutes passed in silence; she
hung over it and joined my sad tears to theirs; all this time no
She was fast asleep.
from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father’s
two young men before I outstay my welcome.”
The latter felt that she had been in the way, though why was
substantiality.”
      when your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the

stems glided a great dog, whose black and white colour made him a
musical accents, as if a thunderbolt had split a cloud over his head,
already adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the

those little pigs’ eyes for nothing. Blast his soul! Couldn’t he pay up
      add aught of civility to his ordinary style?—for I dare not
seemed as if there was a fire lit, an altar burning behind its screen
from the time they could speak; and they had always been “of a mak’ of

little one about two months since—we have three now—and both mother and
nipped little boys by the shoulder who were passing to school. And any
sick. I stared at him and then at Tom, who had made a parallel

      Collins, whose enquiries after herself and all her family were
well, then, I won’t sell you the car at all … I’m under no obligations
table, sat down and wrote two letters. One he put in his pocket, the

the sake of Elizabeth; for myself, if you tell me to leave again
whiskies had gone to his head and Gallaher’s strong cigar had confused
again, and proceeded in his search.
but a tortuous defile for carriages down the centre of the street,
from you!”
“I remember Mrs. Fairfax told me so once.”
      “The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. We want none
this spectacle with a sentiment of unavailing and impotent anger, not a
While Dorothy was looking earnestly into the queer, painted face of the
found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost

beside me on the bridge. While we were waiting he brought out the
Farfrae was compelled, in sheer self-defence, to close with Henchard in

      playing with them, and loving them.
“’Twas just something to say—that’s all! But we must make private
      withheld by immediate want of fortune from entering into
      vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
day. “I _won’t_ have you talk like that!” he thundered. “‘Leery,’
propriety of my station, I could still meet him in argument without
did not need to be wiped away. As for the Lion, he wiped his eyes so

      however, by supposing that her last letter to her friend from

mad delightful follies. There was romance in every place. But Venice,
down now, Miss Elliott.”
      nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and myself. About a year ago, she

be something on, somewhere. I have promised to dine at White’s, but it

she got inside she could not see him. Nor did she see him again that
      opposition. She dreaded seeing Mr. Wickham again, and was
      belief that I will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have

away.”
      Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of
welfare was so dear than he would be at a roadless spot only half as

discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted
As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry’s
arrange coherently what I had to say, I told her all the story of my
jobs for his sons and nephews and cousins. The working-man is not going

lay there almost unheeded: the very servants paid her but a remittent
I now drew near him again.
it out?”
After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate
“and then we’ll tell you where to go. You understand now?”

remind you of, which you seem to forget.”
A new chapter in a novel is something like a new scene in a play; and
“On the photograph!” exclaimed Mr Kernan.
the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply

and he whispered some inquiries of the other bystanders, and remained

joy-imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me. And then I bent over
place. Mary and I sit in the kitchen sometimes, because at home we like
woman could wish. When he grew to manhood, Quelala, as he was called,
wild gesture of despair.

“You resemble the advertisement of the man,” she went on innocently.
a tanner instead of a bob.”
glistening hors-d’oeuvre, spiced baked hams crowded against salads of


so harmonious. His eyes were large and blue, with brown lashes; his
great assemblage hushed as if by magic. The biggest of the tigers came

“You said he was alive?” I exclaimed.

and ask her no questions; in ten minutes more, give her the remainder
deemed that in some wild, lone scene, I and Jane were meeting. In
waiter if any one had been to inquire after a Miss Eyre, I was answered
I ought to know. The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was. I

picture? Basil would be sure to do that. No; the thing had to be
on it, and were drawn swiftly by their queer little horses to the place
played began to control his movements. His softly padded feet played
thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till

bystander informed her, with some surprise at her ignorance, that it
      still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course
scampered in all directions, for Toto had awakened from his sleep, and

“No, no,” said Mr Fogarty eagerly. “I think you’re wrong there. It was
      “Is this a hint to me, Lizzy,” said her father, “to send for the

my hideous narration.
interesting, talking of faints and worms; but I soon grew tired of him
and arms trembled under the stress. After a long struggle Weathers
whisked his tail from side to side in pure joy at being in the country
“My dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and
such a bitter night—the keenest wind you ever felt. You had better send

      the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts. They
“Horribly!” he answered, gazing at her in amazement. “Horribly! It was
so. How it will answer, I cannot tell: I really don’t know. Equality of
path leading only to a deep reach of the stream called Blackwater, and
      indulge the taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much
imagination: a glimpse of sea between two rocks; the rising moon, and a
“... in the Redeemer. Only they don’t believe in the Pope and in the
he mumbled his feelings to himself: “Be dazed, if I loved my country
presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near,
secret which Lucetta had so earnestly hoped to keep buried, though the
When she got upstairs to Elizabeth-Jane’s room the latter had taken off
anybody’s. It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other
At that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own

and when I said, in a low voice, “Mr. Rochester,” she made a movement
think what she should do next. She could not understand how all her
root business which some of the Town Council, headed by Farfrae, had
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. “Be

her five years before when he and Alphy had gone to Belfast on a
“Well, and what of John Reed?”
      when you left London?”
times the Scarecrow twisted a neck, until at last all were lying dead
syllable with one of them; and as to thinking well of them, I consider
      Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. She knew but
cheering smile or generous word: but still the Christian was patient
One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious
      designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be
“I don’t want you to get a wrong idea of me from all these stories you
made. But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell. A
      grandfather’s death made her mistress of this fortune.”
At any rate, the propriety of returning to him, if he lived, was
“Quite finished,” said the painter. “And you have sat splendidly
Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally
“I wish Diana or Mary would come and live with you: it is too bad that
“She had, she had,” said Henchard emphatically.
breakfast-room door opened.
into his boots at the bottom of the stairs, while Henchard thrust his
      her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It was, on the
“Does it?” He turned his eyes toward it absently. “I have been
plainly that she meant to know him in public no more.
      “You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot.
“The ancient teachers of this science,” said he,
there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men

“When did she die?”
She turned to Mrs. McKee and the room rang full of her artificial
feel that no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession,
      it was yet a well-known fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he
saying recklessly “I will see it!” turned to the window, threw up the




convenience in Lucetta arriving first at her house. Nobody there as yet
to them, can be refitted for their reception.”
      and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining
also. You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your

’ee?” in significant tones. The other’s invitation to come in was
      Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the
Brocklehurst is the treasurer.”
them. After a while they went out and he called for another punch. He

girl in short clothes and blue boots of knitted yarn—and the murmured
along a shortcut from nothing to nothing. She saw something awful in

“That was a strange question to be put by his darling Jane.”
“I am afraid you are disappointed in me, Bessie.” I said this laughing:
      invitation could be sent; hopeless of seeing him before. But on
      exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she
The porter led them along a corridor and opened a door. Then he set his
time. I went back and lived there after my father’s death. But I don’t
weather-beaten, and over-worked—when, as my eye wandered from face to
were four very big barmbracks. These barmbracks seemed uncut; but if

unless for some temporary whim or purpose, her eyes were arrested by
spectacle of her sad resignation gave me an intolerable pain at the
      “You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last
“We came here to see the Great Oz,” said Dorothy.

      She was wild to be at home—to hear, to see, to be upon the spot
They were fair: his were dark. But this was an unimportant preliminary.
Henchard’s look that he began to regret this.
“Why didn’t ye take your holiday like the rest of the men?” He spoke in

“Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert,” replied Glinda. “If
      “It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it
      “_Her_ not objecting does not justify _him_. It only shows her
sometimes met in society, and had never thought of hating because I
      genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind.
Yalbury Wood. Your wife swore false that time, Joe—O, by Gad, she
further order to Grace Poole. The solicitor addressed me as he
      her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the
Don’t tell me that.”
his trusses by a lift, judge his hay by a chaw, and settle the price
used for its original purpose not so very long ago. The sloping
Elizabeth-Jane was in the kitchen waiting for the supper, had been
flying inscriptions: _Ginger Beer_ and _Ginger Ale_. A cut ham was
      The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered
been sorry for all this long ago; but his attempts to replace ambition
meagre, though, as far as it went, true response.
drew near my native town, I slackened my progress. I could hardly sustain
“Would it comfort, or would it wound you to have a similar painting?

delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things. All I have with
      from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both
star: soon it would boast the moon; but she was yet beneath the

made inquiries. Mr. Mason, he found, had a son and daughter; and he
      acceding to the proposal before him. In terms of grateful
sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a great table, staring with
marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I’ll sort of—oh—fling you

found murdered here last night.”
“The betting is on the Americans.”
has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock. I wished sometimes to

rolled from under my feet, the ivy branches I grasped gave way, the
was getting out at the Canal Bridge she thanked him and bowed, and he
seemed to wear a new colour in his eyes. He no longer thought of
Elizabeth as a watch-dog to keep her father off—what a new idea. Yet it
shoulder, as one would towards a pronounced enemy.
Eliza resumed:

“It is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you
He opened a third and fourth letter, and read. This time he approached
looked happier than when he set out. He had performed an act of duty;
the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a little phial and a


      desirable even to _his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart.
hallooed in answer. How my heart beat as he came running across the

alone, before any words came through. A damp streak of hair lay like a
not make any formal proposal. I told her that I loved her, and she said
for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a
right.’”

that—nothing more.”
trouble and expense would be saved ye?—and ’tis a convenience when a

      only for the sake of finding out that Mrs. Collins’s joints of
I was agonised with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of
no more beating of rain against the window-panes: look here” (he lifted
      promising. I am very glad you liked her. I hope she will turn out
any such you may have, particularly the letters written in the first
“And the girl is quite safe from learning the shame of her case and
movement upstairs disturbed him, and Henchard came down from his
kindness; but I cannot live so: and you have no pity. I shall remember
his ancient priestly garments their green faded look for the red
of our garden: this pleasure consisted in prospect of noble summits
      heard that the Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge. The
thinking she might steal them. But the child was so proud of her pretty
      had most cruelly mortified her, by what he said of Mr. Darcy’s
      every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him. For herself
      consequence. Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the
“Well lass,” replied a voice within, “give it her if she’s a beggar. T’
strength was gone. I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day
pale face looked over the solicitor’s shoulder—yes, it was Mason
One morning at breakfast, Diana, after looking a little pensive for
time my chosen comrade—one Mary Ann Wilson; a shrewd, observant
of Gateshead Church an inviting bourne? In such vault I had been told
On the hill-top above me sat the rising moon; pale yet as a cloud, but

“Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the Sound.”

heels, and Gabriel was again in a cab with her, galloping to catch the
      know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found

which people earth. Women are supposed to be very calm generally: but
beggars and walked firmly, carrying a stout hazel.

this she herself forgot for the moment her partially justifying


guidance!

bent her head.
every part of the room. And at last they looked at Dorothy again.
with letters for money! I have no more money to give him: we are
the _Darwinismus_ movement in Germany, and found a curious pleasure in
were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death. I

any care or bitter recollection. I often refused to accompany him,

give the impression that it was by a favour of friendship the mite of
“Oh no,” objected Tom quickly, “not me.”
      though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own,
same meals we do, and wear clothes at our mama’s expense. Now, I’ll
      in his gig, and showing him the country; but when he went away,
      yours. My aunt’s intelligence had given me hope, and I was
lanterns, band, all had disappeared like the crew of _Comus_.
world except John Reed; and this book about the liar, you may give to
unexpected one, broke the thread of my musings. Mr. Mason, shivering as
in the dried-up bed of a great river; I heard a flood loosened in
but you: it is different;—I feel your benefits no burden, Jane.”
      “It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well
of my life. But the bitter thing is, that when I was rich I didn’t need
followers of Muhammad. This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly
word, her point was half gained.
the valley of the shadow of death. _His_ chastisements are mighty; and
I am soon to pack your trunk. Missis intends you to leave Gateshead in
I dressed as well as I could for shivering, and washed when there was a
      cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the

      after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the

demurer gait, the pattern of the shining little nails in the soles of

let the breeze stir his hair and kiss his brow. He seemed in communion
      “Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of
impressive in its noble simplicity, as when he delivered the oracles of
generations was now bare of human beings, and almost of aught besides.
For half a minute there wasn’t a sound. Then from the living-room I
several tears of sorrow and regret. These tears ran slowly down his
bag. We were serious to the point of solemnity, but once during the
to’t!”
      the instrument by her sister Mary, who having, in consequence of
went on nervously:

      as an agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish
Bitter and truculent when excited, I spoke as I felt, without reserve
out. The cold air met him on the threshold; it crept into the sleeves
“Out of my head.”
with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’
    Que soulève un soupir d’amour.
      by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be
front door open; Mr. Bates came out, and with him was a nurse. After
Henchard, for the latter had come on at once. It was a wrestling match,
all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.

      than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as
but I was deeply affected by it. If such lovely creatures were
no slip ’twixt cup and lip in this case; that Elizabeth-Jane and Donald
      These were the contents:
“Yes.” His eyes went over it, every arched door and square tower. “It
off the terrible oppressiveness of being surrounded by a throng, and


muttered apology but Gabriel cut him short.
to me, Frankenstein. You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with
“I overheard your interview with my husband last night, and saw the
support from those adjoining. There were slate roofs patched with
away from the door.



which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were
walked along at a brisk pace. “I have lost much flesh since I lived
      for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
“Nineteen,” said the old man.
“I am going to see the play through,” answered the lad, in a hard
and we were listening to the portentous chords of Mendelssohn’s
though his wife was not particularly happy in it. The visit was
distinction of Colonel Dent, contrasted with his look of native pith

have been, can death be any evil to me?”

servants, that had been hired from Millcote, were bustling about
      entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg
“Why—Joe closed wi’ me, and we rolled down together, close to his
 Chapter VII. The Journey to the Great Oz


“Bride!” Mr. Rochester bowed, and the curtain fell.
      and the rest from the pride of her nephew, who chooses that
lean toward her; an irrelevant criticism that made it no less
hour of eventide.
than usual, kept smiling and saying that there was no harm meant: but
fain find nourishment for some less fiendish feeling than that of
roughly adumbrated as the experiences of a third person; and Elizabeth,

      enquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but he actually
“I wonder who thought of introducing it here?”
over to a shop in Henry Street. Here she was a long time in suiting
Miss Miller was calling the pupils to go to bed.
followed by a lovely spring morning, could make them: the sun was just
figure, with a falseface.”
“I understand how you feel,” said the little girl, who was truly sorry
through the saloon where they were all seated at dinner. We found the
“Now, he has his back towards me,” thought I, “and he is occupied too;

Thus they conversed; and there was nobody to set before Elizabeth any
“It is, indeed!” replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased. “But is
years—scoffed at; at best pitied.
grass, careful to make no sound; he pauses—fancying she has stirred: he
the working-man as good a right to be in the Corporation as anyone

may be thought pushing!” said Farfrae after a pause.
stated; the effigy was discovered by a cowherd, and that of Lucetta a
There is a man in our own days whose words are not framed to tickle
their shame, but he was unchanged. No winter marred his face or stained
interest to one’s old age. I suppose they don’t know your name at the
hills, whose changes and aspect I had ceased to note an hour ago, I saw
on the ground near me, embraced her knees with her arms, and rested her
He paused: the birds went on carolling, the leaves lightly rustling. I
his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him,
“You touch me, sir,—you hold me, and fast enough: I am not cold like a
countenance had somewhat changed from its flush of prosperity; the
individual not belonging to Gateshead, and not related to Mrs. Reed.
      quite happy till I have been all round the park. A low phaeton,
In form it was like the nave of a cathedral with one gable removed, but
not drink with me, sir? I find this Casterbridge ale warreming to the
      that instead of twelve, he had brought only six with him from
      Forster will, I dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy
A comparative silence ensued. Lady Ingram thought it “le cas” to wring
knobs and handles, and the brass rosette at the bottom of each riband
      really happy he was.
had I loved him so well.
“So be it. Every scrap shall be yours.... But, between you and me,
the elements.
protection, and not quite exiled from the sunshine of his presence.
now—”
warn you, I have no faith.”

Mr. Rochester, as he sat in his damask-covered chair, looked different
cheerful as Christmas itself on the tracks beside the gate.
      been in town three months last winter, that I had known it, and
      let us give the matter over as lost. As soon as I get to town I
“When will he come? When will he come?” I cried inwardly, as the night
She said she could not dance—in any proper way.
      Elizabeth.
assumed an inky colour, and pursued the rest of their way in slow
stumbled away, laughing. A bitter blast swept across the square. The
outstript us all. Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true. A

sun had rays. All the melody on earth is concentrated in my Jane’s

      was always very fond of me. But of course she did not mention my

On my return, I found the following letter from my father:—





      as yours. Do you draw?”
with an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious. There

The Tin Woodman came to her and said:


had rivalled, cursed, wrestled with for life in days before his spirit

      “Not at all.”
She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in her
umbrella. His magniloquent western name was the moral umbrella upon
      to think my opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I
primed with a spoon, was now placed down the table, and these were
      discharged.
afterwards waited for a long time, but that he did not return.

were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a
Chapter XVIII
      Lady Catherine de Bourgh.

the dark shrubbery.
was bathing. Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor ever let
young lady; passing strange that you should listen to me quietly, as if
abandoned her child, and ran away to Italy with a musician or singer. I
“These few grains will be sufficient to show ye with,” came in the




Lowood: my experience had been of its rules and systems; now I
me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of
      had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be

though he had stood so near. He must have been too busy, she thought.


“Pooh! you can’t be silly enough to wish to leave such a splendid
“You would be surprised to find how unlikely she is to dream of the

      great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told her
      soon afterwards ordered her carriage. Upon this signal, the
begin to look beyond Moor House and Morton, and sisterly society, and
      From the entrance-hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
He was quite unconscious that he was the victim of a plot which his
could not agree about the word or syllable the scene illustrated.

The Magic Art of the Great Humbug

marvelling over Gatsby’s books in the library one night three months
middle, I sat down on a stile which led thence into a field. Gathering
had to do it over again: and this time she got the prayer-book.
That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath of

He was reluctant to close the book, reading each item aloud and then
indignation broke from him. He could see no change, save that in the
should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in
perseverance: as stone is worn by continual dropping. Besides, you must

terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered
overmaster him and he halted before the door in indecision. Finally he
      Elizabeth,
refinement in her mind or manners—and, I married her:—gross,
“Very good, you needn’t wait to see. Go downstairs and do your work.”
the trees round Thornfield, a mile distant; and when I glanced down in
unnecessary pain: the little I did say lacerated his faithful heart
moments the entire band stood before her.


repine. I know poetry is not dead, nor genius lost; nor has Mammon
memory of the innocence that they had tarnished. They wondered how one
singularly handsome. What was their beauty to me in a few weeks?
do anything. Mrs Kearney looked searchingly at the oldish face which
“Here are strangers,” said the Guardian of the Gates to him, “and they
      in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three


“Thank you: that contents me for to-night. Now you had better go; for
kinds of music as he sat indoors in the High Street, had put on his hat
small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune.

there. Some little boys had come up on the steps and were looking into
      unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a
Munchkins in the land, and his friends were gathered with him to
Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright. There, indeed, just
Any suspicion of impropriety was to Elizabeth-Jane like a red rag to a
glad of her old brown waterproof. The tram was full and she had to sit
  Chapter 21


      sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his
Mr Henchy waited a few moments and then nodded in the direction of the
hatch of the original mill yet formed a cascade which had raised its
expect the reader to have the same intuitive perception, so I must
      unequally they may be returned. It is natural that obligation
He almost started at my sudden and strange abruptness: he looked at me
      arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that he might be


promptness up and down the table, nobody filled the Mayor’s glass, who
hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up
was undergoing repair; a lady was coming there to live shortly; all the
      to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest—there

at least, of that feeling.
“Come, Pammy.”
This scheme I went over twice, thrice; it was then digested in my mind;
finish until I desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of
“‘May I know the names and residence of those friends?’
there, and Farfrae finding his feet again the struggle proceeded as
      through at Rosings. To Rosings he then hastened, to console Lady
      whom he had been travelling. “They will join me early to-morrow,”

never had a glimpse of it yet.”
to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an
      wounding yours. I can no longer help thanking you for your
“What will you do?” she asked cautiously, while trembling with
than they are.”
      sister, we shall exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for
him down with the pressure of mechanized friendship. He left off coming
      might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.”

went off into a deep vinous sleep.
that a woman would dare to speak so to a man. For me, I felt at home in
was the hour of study; they were engaged in conning over their
      related the affair. They agree with me in apprehending that this
There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating—people
her bed-room; she could hear that somebody was admitted there, and
“’Tis five-and-forty years since I had my settlement in this here

called me back into the room.
... there was something uncanny about him. I’ll tell you my
      other, many weeks.”
My dear Sister,
      doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his
mine of love to bestow them upon me. My mother’s tender caresses and
“What! you _will_ go?”

From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the
      was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
She raised her hand up to heaven. “Before God I am telling the truth,”


“Well, I did a good day’s work today,” said Mr Henchy, after a pause.
“Well, I observed to him that as you were unused to company, I did not
disappointment, he might well have been pitied. He was like one who had
I’ll go away and not see you till to-morrow, or when you like, and then
Jane—trust like me. It is the Rock of Ages I ask you to lean on: do not
Frisco, dances out alone on the canvas platform. A momentary hush; the
man!”
“Not at all. I don’t speak for myself only, several have named it. You
existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance
 CHAPTER XVII.
When she got outside the streets were shining with rain and she was
“For my part I don’t see why men who have got wives and don’t want ’em,
taste, the country’s taste. I even knowed the taste of the coarse
      her family. They were then, with no other delay than his pointing
you will look at your friend, and he will seem to you to be a little
cage under a bush outside, to lessen the awkwardness of his arrival.
rugged points in my character before the ensuing four weeks elapsed: he
a dozen days!” and so forth, lessening his figures day by day.
“Well, they say he’s a nephew or a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm’s. That’s
search of an imaginary gallery.
“When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth
a little distance and returning again, for an hour or more. Much
Go up to your own room; think over all I have said, and, Jane, cast a
I’ll take it for you. You bring the other things.” He spoke rapidly and
Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning Tribune, and waiting for
you as Paris in dainty armour, and as Adonis with huntsman’s cloak and

could not sleep for thinking of his look when he paused in the avenue,
being certain it could not be of much moment, I dismissed, and soon

possessed eyes whose gaze I delighted to encounter. Her whole face


to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations? I had before been moved
      said to Elizabeth,

Gateshead; thus whirled away to unknown, and, as I then deemed, remote
the sake of their soothing silence—never seek out or dwell upon the
      and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the
Wilson had heard some of these same explanations before, from Myrtle,


sure I do not want to kill anybody, even to see Aunt Em again.”
way and giving each other unheeded orders. Mr Browne begged of them to
the waters of general philosophy. He was well informed. His friends
had helped her do this. The second time was when she had fought against
still apparently perfect. Most people would have termed her a splendid
     We rise; one wand’ring thought pollutes the day.

was a melancholy tempered by recurrences of faith and resignation and



“One may lose one’s way.”
(taking one from the mantelpiece). “You have no right to preach to me,
“Rochester! Rochester! for God’s sake, come!”
again, I suppose?”

When Elizabeth-Jane had carried down his supper tray, and also that
temperament he wished to fascinate seemed to give his wit keenness and
“The one with red cheeks is called Miss Smith; she attends to the work,
      she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at Netherfield in
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say,


Port-Bredy. She will be home by dusk.”
      if he felt that life could furnish nothing greater. He carved,
“To this I put my name.
finest tragedy. She was always a heroine. The last night she played—the
cried. “Why have you changed your mind? You people who go in for being
      Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would
I took him into the drawing-room, where his son lay, and left him
      attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
“Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give up your purpose, but
      the secrecy which Lydia seems to think necessary; and then I must
“And are the family well at the house, Robert?”
occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been
      reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty
capacity that brought him food and bed. His brown, hardening body
first to Lowood, and I had never quitted it since. My vacations had all
held me in doubt. How much of him was saint, how much mortal, I could

“Then, never mind it. You will get through it, Scotchmen are always


      calm. Elizabeth’s courage did not fail her. She had heard nothing
“On that fire! You let the fire out! By God, I’ll teach you to do that
it. He insisted, too, on my coming the next day to spend the evening at
      for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
      scarcely less so; and as for Mr. Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he
There was a moment of silence. The telephone book slipped from its
first thing they came to was a china milkmaid milking a china cow. As
than she: though two rooms off, I heard every word—the thin partitions
air he fainted. We accordingly brought him back to the deck and
      Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest

We all looked—the knuckle was black and blue.
can scarcely bear to review the times to which I allude: the moral
      having been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting
four miles perceived the roofs of a village and the tower of a church.

a tenant. He said with a puzzled air to the first person he

the sky in all directions. The sun had baked the plowed land into a
above the washstand and during the day a white-shaded lamp stood as the
and looked everywhere to see where she was. “After a time,” continued
      credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I
I heard that, that he was dead!”
found in one of the book-cases. The formal monotonous ticking of the

“I came out here to look for you. I have been wanting to tell you




“LET DOROTHY GO TO THE CITY OF EMERALDS”
The elder man laughed. “The only horrible thing in the world is
my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me!
she had seen him mount his horse and depart, she was about to close the
      curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently
months past? Doing nothing, expecting nothing; merging night in day;
      sister. Such a change in a man of so much pride exciting not only
It was not only the hurry of preparation that made me feverish; not
between the gay blue chintz window curtains, showing papered walls and
and stood by his hay in a lonely reverie, the constable having strolled
to almost empty benches. The curtain went down on a titter and some


      negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive, and
blotches and pimples, had just brought the tobacco for a cigarette into
journey.”
better if he went with her on Saturday night. She agreed. She respected



beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from Dorian. His
      Longbourn.
dark. After a time, he went away and stood in an adjoining portico and
Mr Crofton said that it was a very fine piece of writing.
it, so that to move about was to stumble continually over scenes of
      those casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what

supporting a pitcher, poised gracefully on her head. Both her cast of

Nothing that her affection could urge would induce him to reconsider
she discussed. I recalled her to my level.


event which had given that feeling birth. The apparition of Newson
      as you used to do.”
      Elizabeth added privately, “And how much I shall have to
regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one
was. He was prisoned in thought. Memory, like a horrible malady, was
seat to look round to the door, near which I still stood.
source to which each traces his origin) whose workings baffle mortal
so to him. “Here we went in, and here we sat down. I faced this way.
inheritance of sin and shame? Were his own actions merely the dreams

having to crawl out on their hands and knees.
accompaniments. Polly Mooney, the Madam’s daughter, would also sing.
Farfrae looked more serious, waving his head a half turn. “I must be a
place again. When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I
“But you were strong enough to kill the Wicked Witch of the East,” said



“It is only a stuffed man. I will peck his eyes out.”
A strange place was this humble kitchen for such occupants! Who were

      chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my
cease reading or writing, rest his chin on his hand, and deliver
too clever and too cynical to be really fond of. Would there ever be
before he answered. Mr Alleyne and Miss Delacour were standing outside
was stupid with liquor and unable to understand that the ambulance had
nursed her during all her last long illness in their house at
“Perhaps, as you have not mentioned your destination, you may as well
tinted, contrasted well with the sunny hue of the cleared meadows
“Sir,” I answered, “a wanderer’s repose or a sinner’s reformation
Stubberd,” said the corn-merchant. “It must bide till the morning, for
Wilson stared and nodded.
What I want is, that you should write to your sisters and tell them of
“Must I really come, Harry?”
yourself.”
night-gown; and when it lay there safe and warm, I was comparatively
scampered out of sight, with all the mice hurrying after her.
shouldn’t get rid of ’em as these gipsy fellows do their old horses,”
Elizabeth-Jane quite coolly: “I imagine your father may call to see you

trying to forget the sad things that happened to me.” He hesitated.
brooding, seemed cheerful; even though, as usual, she was somewhat
“Why are you silent, Jane?”
  * Save $5.00 [crossed out] $3.00 per week
imperious, despotic eyebrow. How often had it lowered on me menace and

was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair

me to Thornfield. Nothing of the sort was visible; and when I asked a
Stoney Batter and taken Mary Jane, their only niece, to live with them
      aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their

      But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
“Four of them were electrocuted,” I said, remembering.
few years he would come back quite rich and happy.
any one go against it? No; I’ll not go to America; I’ll stay and be

from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to
      revenging himself on me was a strong inducement. His revenge
It was now the sweetest hour of the twenty-four:—“Day its fervid fires
“Let me be torn away, then” I cried. “Let another help me!”
freshness and grace to be stolen from herself on the instant by the
lived better too. Mr. Brocklehurst and his family never came near
Hot! … Hot! … Is it hot enough for you? Is it hot? Is it … ?”
event as to the consummation of his happiness.
could only get out of the way for a month or two, till all was over.” I
“Those other two fellows I was with——”

    In yellow lustre shone”—
know or disapprove. Sometimes, in my mind, I followed them to their
Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laugh whenever he
      something to look forward to.
quicker to recognise his friends than you are, sir; he pricked his ears
Several times he turned his head and looked back for their car, and if
don’t press him, knowing it would be unbecoming in the face of that:
beauty. If he liked the majestic, she was the very type of majesty:
could not endure it. Hush, now, and wipe your eyes.”
Thus she lived on, a dumb, deep-feeling, great-eyed creature, construed


curtseying low, I looked up at—a black pillar!—such, at least, appeared
      They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn

      implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving
D. Rockefeller. In a basket swung from his neck cowered a dozen very
Donald Farfrae was overhauling bins and samples with the inquiring
      whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore
      “These are home questions—and perhaps I cannot say that I have
If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would
“Well! Let’s hear what you mean?”

Lucetta’s conduct, Farfrae had been so nearly her avowed lover that she
allusions of that kind always made her awkward but also because she did
affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his


ring, welded on, and irremovable as Gurth’s collar of brass. To the

      felt too strongly. It had given him a disgust to his business
curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes,
the chief hotel in Casterbridge—namely, the King’s Arms. A spacious
“You will complete it,” answered the old gentleman with a courteous
      in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror,

immensely. Then it passed away. I cannot repeat an emotion. No one can,
matter: you find in this stranger much of the good and bright qualities
It was the 5th of November, and a holiday. My little servant, after
barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been
      so thin and small?”

the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary. The
“Nevertheless he’s an Oxford man.”

forsake him and, as he came by the railings of the Duke’s Lawn, he
“I like to serve you, sir, and to obey you in all that is right.”
great friends, he ceased to be a great artist. What was it separated
is only on condition of perfect submission and stillness that I shall
“And besides, Aunt Kate,” said Mary Jane, “we really are all hungry and
      She had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach,

two, slipped the letter into the post-office, and came back through
Mr Fogarty brought a gift with him, a half-pint of special whisky. He
is necessary to calm our apprehensions. For a long time I have thought
(the farmer and his wife) loaded me with attentions. There was an
on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand
became calm. Now he made an effort to rest his head on my shoulder, but
Good-bye, Basil. It has been a most interesting afternoon.”
“Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!”
He began to rock again, and Michaelis stood twisting the leash in his
Of late I had often recalled this saying and this incident; for during
ship-money, which most of them appeared unable to answer; still, every

Witch earnestly for her kindness; and Dorothy exclaimed:
“And I want him to send me back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.
“I mean, on the contrary, to be busy.”
over the rest.
      tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said:
like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond
renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption.
plainly as well as his face; his unusual breadth of chest,

with one of them? Will you say that of the master of the house!”
glidingly to mount the wall, and tremblingly to pause in the centre of
      fancied herself in love before, her regard had all the warmth of
that night at Daisy’s. At her first big golf tournament there was a

the water they could see the road of yellow brick running through a
covet very much,” he persisted.

every evening.

and told her what had been proposed about her surname. “Can you


not only the admiration, but the amazement of her auditors: she was
a servant’s dream which had thus struck horror through the house; and
“Don’t talk so loud.”
      she lived in London. Georgiana’s reception of them was very
had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had

the wall.”
      But when Elizabeth told of his silence, it did not seem very
passed on, till he came to those lovely stanzas upon Venice:

our joys and griefs; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent
a rustling there. I asked, ‘Sophie, what are you doing?’ No one
      can remove. No arguments shall be wanting on my part that can
you would not repent marrying me—be certain of that; we _must_ be


creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the
me. I heard them hissing, and I smiled. What could they know of love
      either side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you


The woman, however, did stand up. “Now, who’s auctioneer?” cried the
has grown up in the belief that the sailor to whom I made over her
degraded. Of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all
be called spacious days: and if they are gone beyond recall let us
“How do you feel now?” asked Oz.

A look of resignation settled upon her. Henchard saw its bitterness;
      obliged, on her return, to undo all the work of the morning, and

He began:
impossible to return to my retreat during that day. Accordingly I hid
“during your walk on the moor. But go after him; he is now lingering in
said, “Follow me and I will show you your room.”
rakes on their shoulders, now, at the hour I arrive. I have but a field

      an indirect boast.”
The Tin Woodman was about to reply when he heard a low growl, and
pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours. In the evening
Gabriel coloured and was about to knit his brows, as if he did not
the first house she was met in her walk by Donald Farfrae. This was
He was hungry for, except some biscuits which he had asked two grudging

brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early,


      “I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of
basin at liberty, which did not occur soon, as there was but one basin
producing a kind of momentary Japanese effect, and making him think of
“I found out what your ‘drugstores’ were.” He turned to us and spoke
missed his footing. The customers returned to the counter and a curate

two.” Henchard paused in reverie. “I feel I should like to treat the
returned to her the cloud of letters she had written and sent him in
Dorian Gray passed his hand over his forehead. There were beads of

      is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound

huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it. The
“A profound remark! A most ingenious quibble! He went to Millcote this
“Thanks, I won’t have anything more,” said the painter, taking his cap
      as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it; that his chief
“We’re always the first ones to leave.”

“Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!” shouted Mrs. Wilson. “I’ll say it whenever I
I could not defer, so I approached the master where he stood at Miss


      same time as the other—about eight years ago.”
      which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying
“Yes,” answered Hallward gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in his
      countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all
“Wait a bit, my lad. You should ha’ thought twice before you affronted
      of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of

peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to
      With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room
I had better take advantage of the confession, and begin and coax and
his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish ice. His own
standing another round when Weathers came back. Much to Farrington’s
tidy and well-dressed, she even smiled.
finally spared them, on condition that the Winged Monkeys should ever
Old Mr. Rivers, she said, was a plain man enough, but a gentleman, and
fell into my palm.

market-faces all the year round were glowing little fires.
The Airedale—undoubtedly there was an Airedale concerned in it
At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in a long white cake of
back to England.

He looked at me for a minute.
“Solitude! solitude!” he reiterated with irritation. “I see I must come
astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in

the summer. As my train emerged from the tunnel into sunlight, only
      Hertfordshire are not much better. I am sick of them all. Thank
explore its secrets and analyse their nature.
Some little time after, when the year had advanced into another spring,
to his presence; never been kinder to me when there—and, alas! never
never sees anything.”
purpose, ate a hasty dinner and went forth to find Farfrae. After being
makes more complex. They retain their egotism, and add to it many other
must be a very uncomfortable thing not to be alive. Those creatures
After dinner, we immediately adjourned to the schoolroom: lessons
      he replied, “Say nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself?
decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
He was ruddy and of a fair countenance, bright-eyed, and slight in
money is everything.”
meeting with Adrian Singleton had strangely moved him, and he wondered
“Open another bottle of stout, Jack,” said Mr Henchy. “O, I forgot
passed them to us. She pressed me to take some cream crackers also but

as soon as his father-in-law was dead Mr Mooney began to go to the
nights were chilly, must have been warm for the daytime, spring being
      come?”
      But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or Jane at
morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that
than awake, he gave a great spring and landed directly upon the
“It makes your eyes lovelier,” was his reply.
southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my
seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn’t let this
      happy effect. Jane’s temper was not desponding, and she was
      unworthy of Mr. Bingley’s regard; and yet, it was not in her

subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the
day. Perhaps Farfrae and she had chosen another road for variety’s


with Mr. Rochester. He spoke of his friend’s dislike of the burning
“And you left him in the lurch, didn’t you? You let him go to jail for



contemplation of her face, her dress, her one or two ornaments, her
service.”
      after general assurances of his affection for her and all her
 Chapter 13
      was warmly in his favour. With an air of indifference he soon

at all as yet; for I keep ma papers at the bank, to sleep easy o’
      impossible for _us_ to visit him, if you do not.”
“I hope I shall. I have many inducements to do so.”

sensibility, while fostering his despotism more, would have pleased his
Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkiness about his person and his
vanished behind the corner of the wall. Elizabeth went to the tomb
“I don’t think I shall send it anywhere,” he answered, tossing his head
“Why did we hinder our time by coming in here? I thought you wished to
“Mary is in the kitchen,” I answered.
does it go? Thus I sit here, forsaken by my few acquaintance, and
when he saw a tiny ant toiling by he would step over it, so as not to
had ever sworn before: and to do it properly he required a fit place
      “Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great
To feel that he would like to see Lucetta was with Henchard to start
she sang very rapidly she did not miss even the smallest of the grace
fashioned into a marvellous type, at any rate. Grace was his, and the
“Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys.”
      Elizabeth looked archly, and turned away. Her resistance had not
new tenant. The house was entirely of stone, and formed an example of
It was quite true: he felt that it was doing him no harm. Farfrae, who
of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited
was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in
      “He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of
      Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any
      with his sisters, “I should not care how proud I was. I would
minutes.”
“Will Grace Poole live here still, sir?”
would know who he was. He wanted to escape from himself.

of the Rochesters, their backs towards us, viewing through the rails
      such things I know are all chance in this world. There is no

“No.”
and having heard nothing of what was read for listening to the

doctrines—election, predestination, reprobation—were frequent; and each
the morning gloom, which he soon perceived to be part of Abel’s shirt


the event as an untoward accident seemed, to Farfrae, truest
“Silence! This violence is all most repulsive:” and so, no doubt, she
gone a little way past the inn before he had noticed his acquaintance

Up in the city, I tried for a while to list the quotations on an
      sorry. It was not in her nature, however, to increase her
canvas moneybag, such as was carried by all farmers and dealers—untying
      recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the
thought—”
I learned that he was but just arrived in England, and that he came
years, learnt a portion of French by heart daily—applying myself to

so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or
the sale by auction of a few inferior animals, that could not otherwise
Imogen is waiting for me. Don’t forget about to-morrow. Good-bye.”
so—relieved, I certainly did feel; so I answered him with a contented
morning; now, it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a
banker. But you have not yet asked for anything; you have prayed a gift
feeling for the Irish there. When they heard I was from Ireland they
is many things, but he is not rational. I am glad he is not, after
I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I saw by
My commutation ticket came back to me with a dark stain from his hand.
Dorothy wanted to see more of the Princess, so she ran after her. But
      following Christmas she might be so tolerably reasonable as not
being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle.
days without crossing a threshold: but twice in that space of time did
contraries! Why do you feel so afraid of him? I am not at all; I’ll
His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the verge of
bound her to a chair. The operation was performed amidst the fiercest
way, never writhing round, and scarcely tossing back their boughs once

all her magic powers to make him as strong and good and lovely as any
It was. Half heaven was pure and stainless: the clouds, now trooping
about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try
want to caution you, my dear. That man, Farfrae—it is about him. I’ve

He passed the remainder of the afternoon in a curious highstrung
life is strewn with many such sad memories: and were we to brood upon
he had brooded on for many months of silence. A chance phrase that he
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with

repugnance to the task which was enjoined me. I found that I could not
that, masked in an ordinary woman’s face and shape, uttered the voice,

whispered vows: then I stole back to my chair; and as I resumed it the
“Tell him I will go.”
      uncommonly well, I assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as
the creature. I would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out
the former toast. He was beginning to feel somewhat disillusioned.

might do as I pleased: she had long relinquished all interference in my
      the height of their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on
and prickly hedge. I groped on. Again a whitish object gleamed before
      will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of
It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely
“Never,” said she.
back to Kansas at once.”
loosened or fertilised by education: they grow there, firm as weeds
“I am not so sure of that,” said Mrs. Newson, as she now called
to the sea of ice.
of weekends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be
satisfactorily wound up.



confederates, instead of going his purposed way, where there might be a
      had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good
      “Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly
love!—and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality
results.
the flesh. She possibly might never be fully handsome, unless the
embroidering bags. It is thoughtless to condemn them, or laugh at them,
“whose gestures beamed with mind” made becoming, settling on her face.
was, all flashed across my memory and I groaned bitterly.
“Then,” said Henchard, “I am under the impression that we have met by
      (comparatively speaking) a stranger to our family, should have
and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour; stringent are they;
Now what would you do?—I want your advice.”
impotence of anger. “Shall each man,” cried he, “find a

      to see Lydia, with anxious parade, walk up to her mother’s right
of a cigar—stole from some window; I saw the library casement open a
      of associating with people of rank; and were therefore in every
one bit of evidence left against him. The picture itself—that was
“I hate offices, and I hate clerks,” he replied. “But you are quite
“I can never sit to you again, Basil. It is impossible!” he exclaimed,
“I thought I could have done some good.”
and Dorothy put new paint on his eyes that he might see better. The
but he now put away his grim half-smile, and said, in a kindly subdued
and glanced from behind the window-curtains. Mr. Henchard—now habited
perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of
“Yes. What are you doing in the dark?” said Mr Hynes advancing into
 you’re asleep Into your tent I’ll creep—”
should never know the unexaggerated truth of her past relations with
scientific reason for it all? If thought could exercise its influence

laughed.
      how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as

      consider your situation with much compassion.”
across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the
feeling. I desire the company of a man who could sympathise with me, whose
tried today, and I hope, I sincerely hope, that she will be acquitted.”
named a place a long way off, and where I was sure Mr. Rochester had no
“I be,” promptly answered a short man, with a nose resembling a copper

still devoted to the study of chemistry, and had a laboratory of his
“I don’t admit that!” said Lucetta passionately.

“Get behind me, Satan!” said Mr Fogarty, laughing and looking at the
Perhaps he had read it and had begun to suspect something. And, yet,
first rock when they heard a rough voice cry out, “Keep back!”
      received at Longbourn in the winter, and his compliments to Mr.
a year. I saw them one spring in Cannes, and later in Deauville, and
far away and so clear: a positive tramp, tramp, a metallic clatter,
      “It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but
      and are on their way to town—and without any intention of coming
was and asked his wife to open some more stout. The two next-door girls
holiday, then and ever after, and spent the time in feasting and
auctioneers, and others had each an official stall in the corn-market

signify?”
When his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly and wondered if
a moment. Then it began to scramble all over the oval stellated globe
“Then I am not to be allowed to have anything to do with it

meeting with Gallaher, of Gallaher’s invitation and of the great city
hastened to return home, and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result.
      against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine,
      be quite a misfortune to be liked by him. Mrs. Long told me last
sightseeing crowd, so I’d been calling up a few people myself. They
precious. Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay.
sense of power over him. I was about mechanically to obey him, without
cold. Leah, make a little hot negus and cut a sandwich or two: here are
      servant waited for an answer. Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with
X.
town depended for its existence was shown by the class of objects
his heart,” he answered, sinking into an arm-chair.
attempt to destroy them.
wondered to see them receive with calm that look which seemed to me so
Close—they would have come to-day but for the snow.”

already handling.

nations of Europe. As he investigated the subject—and he always had an
      Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine

drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime.
and granaries he formerly had owned.
starting back.
which, in your princely extravagance, you sent for from London:
“All right.”
In the dressing-room behind the stage she was introduced to the
would be tempting Providence to hurl mother and me down, and afflict us

Soul and body, body and soul—how mysterious they were! There was
“But hearken to me,” pleaded Henchard. “My business you know, is in

“Certainly. If it wasn’t for Dorothy I should never have had brains.

half a liking to the blossom, especially when it looks so artificial as
upon the green cloth, “that I should like to join ye in this reception
worth having.”
to such a step. He answered quietly—
have been parted, hot tears as I have wept over our separation, I never
Fairfax, sir: she saw me with you last night in the hall, and she was
beautiful white—”
as now) shone at her girdle. Let the reader add, to complete the
Prayer Book. I asked her once what was the great attraction of that

      in love now and then. It is something to think of, and it gives
“He is gone; and I told him all I knew of your friend. Donald, who is
poor Whittle. ’Tis just like him,” observed Elizabeth-Jane.
silence. He nodded, and Henchard did the same. They receded from each

“You are not certain, of course?”
eggs with morsels of bacon-fat and bacon-rind. Mrs Mooney sat in the
absence of summer. They loved and sympathised with one another; and
bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of
sung!” He slipped off the table, seized the poker, and going to the
hand and cheek, loving him, being loved by him—the hope of passing a
     Is bowed with woe—for he is gone
“Thank you, John. Mr. Rochester told me to give you and Mary this.” I

view. “Haven’t you ever seen it before?”
mad: I pronounced them with such frantic energy.”

accelerator with the double purpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving
great respect. He said it was a very old name in that neighbourhood;
as he heard in his excited imagination old Mr Leonard calling out in
sitting still amidst the rosy peace and warmth suffusing it. Two young,
both.”
grieve me; but can I let him complete his calculations—coolly put into
“Ah! that pricks pride. Well, fetch me your portfolio, if you can vouch
she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke.

city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful. But I am not afraid so

should all come at once. She stood it pretty well.”
become involved in the web of horror? and why had the Fury flown at

I did not need to be guided to the well-known room, to which I had so

But hard fate had ordained that he should be unable to call up this


      readily have settled the whole.
look. The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets
incident, life, fire, feeling, that I desired and had not in my actual
“Why should I be ashamed of myself?” asked Gabriel, blinking his eyes
wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round

to hear of Lucetta’s absence and though he nodded with outward
dull on the autumn-leaf yellow of her hair, glinted along the paper as
      endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
are excellently matched.”
representative centre of husbandry, wished thus to express its sense of
appeared just as composed as usual. I had thought he would hardly speak
culpability as any one of you three. Miserable I am, and must be for a
      object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with
      of Mrs. Darcy, may be guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake
you shouldn’t act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored.

To my Publishers, for the aid their tact, their energy, their practical
swimming; and a bead has slipped from the lash and fallen on to the
“Very likely. Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find
weaning me from you these five years by saying he was my father, he
reverse was a special annoyance.

Behind their backs was a small window, with a wheel ventilator in one
pictures, large, and dark, and full; the long and shadowy eyelash which

carriage, Mrs. Fairfax is not a very dashing person: so much the
beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at. It
“That’s the secret of Castle Rackrent. Tell your chauffeur to go far
ridge and full nostrils; then a flexible-looking mouth, by no means
      mince-pies. For my part, Mr. Bingley, _I_ always keep servants
was—must have been—Grace Poole. You call her a strange being yourself:
“Will you ever go back?”
the voice of desolation. Above the cliff, and behind the river, rose a

      the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated

heard a low rumble, as of the growling of many wild animals. Toto
      had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of
CHAPTER XI.
timidly.
About two o’clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out
her. It was Jopp.
a little girl besides Bobby there, that I’ve christened Jane.”
“I might have stood there always if you had not come along,” he said;
his unfinished sentences. In the dark of my room I imagined that I saw
Strange words of a strange love! An austere patriot’s passion for his
blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up. “I beg your

shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do
added, a message might possibly come from Mr. Rochester when she was
tell him he was wrong.
      he was violently in love with only a few days before.”
CHAPTER XXXII

bookshelf and read out something to his wife. But shyness had always
his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together. He became greatly
      ever to enter into my house again, nor even to pass through the

was there; but Bessie was already gone, and had closed the nursery-door
was taken pity on by a woman—a young lady I should call her, for she
I _will_ get it, cost what it may.”
lip: he was thinking. It struck me that his hand looked wasted like his
languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed. The whole series
“Right, sir,” said the cabman.
grateful joy—and slept.
“Yes, I doat on Miss Georgiana!” cried the fervent Abbot. “Little
      “Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter, Darcy must
mysterious or marvellous to us. The commonest thing is delightful if
same ragged Flemish tapestry where a faded king and queen were playing

philosophy. One hardly knew at times whether one was reading the
      to walk by herself. The path just admitted three. Mr. Darcy felt

venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix
Mrs Kernan thought it would be wiser to conceal her satisfaction. So
      very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up,
seen on foot, sometimes on farmers’ waggons, sometimes in carriers’
      the match with a friendly eye.’
the object of each being to give his antagonist a back fall; and on
it. It had brought melancholy across his passions. Its mere memory had

      all restraint which mark Lydia’s character. Excuse me, for I must
little legs could carry them, and when they saw their Queen they
he, Jane?”
hand made nothing at all!”
“Miss Temple is full of goodness; it pains her to be severe to any one,
He pursued his revery so ardently that he passed his street and had to
found that I could not pass a single evening, nor even a single hour of
four-post bed with amber hangings as of old; there the toilet-table,
charity-children. I suppose you are an orphan: are not either your


      “And of this place,” thought she, “I might have been mistress!
perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from
      not press her to go and as much as possible prevented her husband
individuality. Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage
      had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her
and strange, and of the future I could form no conjecture. I looked
do you taste that.”
The highest as the lowest form of criticism is a mode of autobiography.
      of her implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew


But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into
tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable.

during dinner, so much was I occupied in puzzling my brains over the
appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other’s blood. Yet I am


cosmopolitan largeness of idea. It was she who presently asked Jopp
at the street corner till the sun had faded the shoulders of his coat
if its scantiness amused him. Soon he produced his pocket-book: “Here,”
eating the thing away. The rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was

that dulls them, it was to know nothing. But it was to teach man to
      me to make his communication public. On the contrary, every

feet.
fearsome moral to each tale. Modern education includes morality;
truculent, grey and massive, with black cavernous nostrils and circled
but sat like one under a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips
      spite of great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to
It had been only a passing fancy of his, but opposition crystallized it
      could have the carriage.”
“Prince Charming,” she answered, looking after the victoria.
      With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them
pearls and studded with sapphires.
hum of conversation as the drawing-room door opened and closed. When

      Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among
that this was because she felt safer on a plane where any divergence
and with little reserve. Jimmy, whose imagination was kindling,

“But you shall not!” replied the voice, and there stepped from behind
in the stocks, for all we know.”
She made such a report of me to her father, that Mr. Oliver himself
pewter plates ranged in rows, reflecting the redness and radiance of a
amiability to sternness; he hoped I was not beginning to idle. I could
wealthy enough to do that.
Gabriel, trembling with delight at her sudden kiss and at the
      Mr. Bingley, I am sure! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad
was at a distance I began to hunger again for wild sensations, for the
fleet, and joyous. What did it matter what happened to the coloured
“There was one of the Munchkin girls who was so beautiful that I soon
She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy. An
      looked serious, as usual; and, she thought, more as he had been

the third landing exchange reluctant good-nights. They used to kiss. He


tongues. The upper teachers now punctually resumed their posts: but
their acquired accomplishments as they appreciated the skill of their
when my feet inflamed; and the torture of thrusting the swelled, raw,
strangers straying amongst the low hillocks and reading the mementoes

“A beautiful pure sweet mellow English tenor,” said Aunt Kate with


murder in the air. Some red star had come too close to the earth....
      on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and she has got
      accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.”
when I took a walk by myself in the grounds; when I went down to the
Briggs, a solicitor, communicating the details I have just imparted. Is
The Scarecrow, who was in the lead, finally discovered a big tree with

had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold
his hand; he is writing.
resorted, glass in hand, and scanned the hedgeless _Via_—for it was the
middle of the room was occupied by two square tables placed end to end,
“You are sure, then, Helen, that there is such a place as heaven, and


      can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You
long, it is true; but much might be done in it by a judicious grouping

“My dear friends,” said Oz, “I pray you not to speak of these little
felt.
      dislike of Mr. Darcy, and her resolution to be civil to him only
      account that he has been so frequently invited this week. You
      retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the
“Elizabeth Lavenza.
      invariably silly.
enough after dinner, I want to take you down to the stables.”
in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
with my full consent, whenever in your opinion it would be seemly: you
spectators room.

“It had better be done properly,” he added after a pause. “A small
“You must have become in some degree attached to the house,—you, who
back, and a blank space was visible on the wall. Perhaps some night he
relinquishing. What aim, what purpose, what ambition in life have you
to get back again to you: and wherever you are is my home—my only
Elizabeth-Jane Henchard forthwith. It was done, and fastened up, and
are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more
companion. At this period she married, removed with her husband (a
Mrs Kearney brought her daughter over to them, and talked to them



if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen.”
Henchard paused a moment, threw himself back so that his elbow rested
She said she wanted to see Mr. Henchard.

house-maid, tell of her. Leah liked her well enough. Mr. Rochester was
for it.”
unpleasant incident with Miss Ivors. Of course the girl or woman, or
He took off his glasses and wiped them again, outside and in.


      Elizabeth’s congratulations were given with a sincerity, a
beauty is the wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not
and on to an ideal heaven. The voice of Mrs. Fairfax, speaking to a

she was not the woman for me.”

From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest child, was born
      views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own


am twining the soft, silken skein round my finger, it sends a thrill up
returns: if he feels faint, you will put the glass of water on that
      in the masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have

      likely, even to Charlotte’s wishes, to be the case; and after

      plainly deduced from the whole: one, that Elizabeth was the real
out:
It was true; Toto had fallen down beside his little mistress. But the
“Ah, then,” said Lord Henry, rising to go, “then, my dear Dorian, you
      _one_, whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own,
posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon

The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint beside the
      I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your
was the inexhaustible charm that rose and fell in it, the jingle of

masts of ships. Wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly sails to the
The morning came. The sky, which had been remarkably clear down to
August 5th, 17—.
“that ’twas meant for a living man, nothing should have drawn out of my

said. “But I should wish to have my own way in some things.”
and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring. I felt this

      Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the
puzzle on. Young lady, I am disposed to be gregarious and communicative
were walking out of Kingstown Station. The ticket-collector saluted


      Elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the
quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college. I then reflected, and
      effort for it, was able to assure with tolerable firmness that
same—unlikely as it had once seemed; but for her or any one else to
homesteads—a street ruled by a mayor and corporation, yet echoing with
“What you want, fella?”
was about to start a motor establishment in Paris) and Rivière was in
They had got me by this time into the apartment indicated by Mrs. Reed,
      much in love with her friend.”
“Disillusion.”
drawing-room, and on a sofa with two cylindrical pillows reclined a
had promised you, I learnt of the rumour that you had—sold your first
“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country? They are
up screwed. They would not wish for worlds that any of Mary Jane’s
“And on my part likewise,” he returned, “I have settled everything; and
      continue the subject.
For poor Lucetta they took no protective measure, believing with the


there would have seemed to mark him too implicitly as the
“It is an annoying subject,” broke in Lord Henry. “It has no
smoked basins of something hot, which, however, to my dismay, sent
“Don’t talk. I want to hear what happens.”
      he was rising every hour in his esteem.
opaque sky, “onding on snaw,” canopied all; thence flakes fell at
hats and a young man in a check suit came in and sat at a table close
rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he

alighted. A little knot of people collected on the footpath to pay

his own responsibility.
lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking
      town on business the day before, and was not yet returned;
what you think!” he cried hoarsely. “Believe me, Farfrae; I have come
      Gardiner had formed, of their being followed by a letter from
      him—just as affable to the poor.”
      were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
      “I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may
windows of the drawing-room, we sat smoking out into the darkness.
cast off all feeling, subdued all anguish, to riot in the excess of my
Basil Hallward seemed very little to him. He was thinking of Hetty
“Thank you, Mr. Rochester, for your great kindness. I am strangely glad
nothing about it. I will account for this state of affairs” (pointing
He, in the meantime, festering with indignation at some erroneous
be kept up. Come, set to work.”
      They had not long been together before Mr. Darcy told her that
his office address on Broadway, and I called Information, but by the
across one of your psalters—old Wiltshire is the only tune worth
          [Wordsworth’s “Tintern Abbey”.]


“Don’t mention it,” he enjoined me eagerly. “Don’t give it another
the mark upon her forehead. The child did not know this, and was full

Witch of the West, they all gathered around the travelers and followed

“As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly
forgetfulness could do that. But the future was inevitable. There were

      prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case,
The corn-factor’s mien was half admiring, and yet it was not without a
      even inferior to what Elizabeth felt.


“It is useless.”
own handwriting. They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at
      are you talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and
deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and by thee, O Night, and the
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little



“Yet now you are here you won’t have anything to say to my offer!”
of the latter by simple avoidance. As soon as their war of prices began
suffering, or loss of blood, or all three combined, were fast
brain; but without, I am perfectly aware, lies at my feet a rough tract
Casterbridge, had seemed strangely weak and agitated, “And this, I
offered no remark. As soon as he was on the landing the man pulled a
He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the
actress! How different an actress is! Harry! why didn’t you tell me

the darkness. He was a middle-aged man, with hair and whiskers

too, seemed swept off into vague space: “Then,” I cried, half
dared not go. There was stretched Sarah Reed’s once robust and active
“That dog?” He looked at it admiringly. “That dog will cost you ten
all the strips together, but when it was finished they had a big bag of
set before her with any effect the palliatives of his great faults—that
experience a sickening sense of disappointment; but rallying my wits,
then it was sheltered, and I wanted a safe asylum: it was plodding—but
“Give this to the Mayor at once,” he said, handing in his hasty note.

hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head, and
      that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I



society of womankind, his silent avoidance of converse with the sex,
man making bottles in a roaring furnace. It was very cold. Her face,
had you to ask, thing,—out with it?”

I touched the heath: it was dry, and yet warm with the heat of the


      should be taken from a regiment where she was acquainted with
then back at Daisy as if he had just recognized her as someone he knew
they had enough to keep them going. Presently two young women with big

their spiritual accountant; and he wished each and every one of his
While she spoke she turned a silver bracelet round and round her wrist.

“You could not have helped telling me, Dorian. All through your life
cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the
not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife is still living.”
as they had left their cars blocking the road, a harsh, discordant din
put ice on her forehead and hooked her back into her dress, and half

“By one who has tried them all,” said Lenehan.

out. In the interview which followed between him and Mrs. Reed, I


own tongue. I got up, but did not go. I looked; I stirred the fire, and
her face, and again beckoned me to depart. The flame illuminated her
and she will enchant us and make us her slaves.”
Dorothy at once ran back to the cottage and found the oil-can, and then
towards the river.

dew-beads on their petals. A great moth goes humming by me; it alights
“You always come dreadfully late.”
unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known. Most
“Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear
and back again to book even a small order.
such I now concluded her to be) saw the difference. Both were fair

to know each other.”
the cash. You don’t believe it? Well, I know it. There are
one so cowardly. But let us go on.”
an eye like that. While you looked so, I should be certain that
his hand back and forth slowly in front of his face.


front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian garden, a half
This was a forlorn hope—he was almost sure that Wilson had no friend:
      playing high she declined it, and making her sister the excuse,
upon the names of Chippendale and Sheraton, though, in point of fact,
      collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and

at last asked the green girl to take another message to Oz, saying if
      her persisting in this interference. From what she had said of
I interrupted him. Anything like a tangible reproach gave me courage at

Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose. The
would be nothing to me then! But that was not to be. I—Cain—go alone as
it—I had no sight into Daisy’s heart, but I felt that Tom would drift
shall need no other happiness.
splash upon the keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable

you wish me dead.”
Possibly, too, the boys were timid, for some old people said that at


they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to rest,
swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain.

went on into the forest.

a drop of blood on an eyelid by the time she had got up the road
shape. M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a
instrument, whatever it is.”

been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret. Poor
“She’s not to know about it. Gatsby doesn’t want her to know. You’re
right: at present I decidedly preferred these fierce favours to
“Pleasant young fellow,” said Henchard.
out that marriage with thee, I _ought_ to do it—I ought to do it,
getting up this! And now, perhaps, I’ll have to go to another part o’

all you can do is to aid Mahomet to go to the mountain; I must beg of
it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his

“Well, shall I help myself?” Tom demanded. “You sounded well enough on
a green-shuttered cottage which had a bow-window, jutting out
vitality as we went by.
at the door by eight-thirty. He was determined not to sleep another
something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and
painful Miss Healy said to the baritone:
      Hertfordshire so very soon. But here she did injustice to the
Michaelis opened the drawer nearest his hand. There was nothing in it
basket with him. Extinguishing the last candle, and lowering the flap
      to comfort me and say that I had not been so very weak and vain
Tin Woodman.
shoes from England with rubber knobs on the soles that bit into the
the coarse materiality of that rivalry it added an inflaming soul.
“Well, that is beautiful, Miss Jane! It is as fine a picture as any
      received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by
the hearthrug of Gateshead. I now glanced sideways at this piece of
“Perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. It is a sad thing to think
I looked up at him to read the signs of bliss in his face: it was
flexuous position, and throwing her arm above her brow—somewhat in the
      opportunity of ridiculing her relations, was bad enough, and she
The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery
Well, these are useless complaints; I shall certainly find no friend on the
      it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty
      of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the
much the better—my position was all the freer.
They weren’t happy, and neither of them had touched the chicken or the
She got a piece of paper, and bending over the fender wrote at his
reared a due sense of the Divine justice. Of the ambition to win power
driven into and out of the town at this season to be sold by the local
“Of course I’m right,” said Mr Cunningham. “I haven’t been in the world
But God sees not as man sees: _His_ will be done—”
“You went to the opera?” said Hallward, speaking very slowly and with a
between man and the broad sun. I could not, in those days, see God for
      “Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility
      sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?”
“Sir?”
regulation of her accounts. She seemed to want no company; no
and I come to you praying that you will put brains in my head instead
      ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it
from the carriage after her; cloaked also; but that was a spurred heel


      with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal
      “You doubt me,” cried Jane, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have
an apology for having disturbed her by coming in.
a blind man, repeating to himself the last words of the singers—
Dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such
Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the
stood perfectly motionless, as if he could not stir at all.
paper, hastily torn off: I recognised in its texture and its stains of
of her honest eyes, at any noise resembling a masculine footfall along
      The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news,
each came out gaily and airily, with dress that gleamed lustrous
seemed to vibrate like the knob of some electric machine:
Chapter 30

They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl
fitted her as well as if they had been made for her.
shape of Jopp, “have you seen any gang of fellows making a devil of a
He assumed a thick provincial accent and said in a tone of command:
      Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was
      estimable, you think at least highly interesting. The power of

being formed in the “very poetry of nature.” His wild and
      visit to Brighton comprised every possibility of earthly

Thus each of the little party was satisfied except Dorothy, who longed
there were always a few of them clustered open-mouthed about the
her temperament in him? These oval, heavy-lidded eyes seemed to look
      into the avenue.”
mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious, than as the
found a salutary solace. I feel I can easily and naturally make room in

the body, I exclaimed, “Have my murderous machinations deprived you
the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly came upon
had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it. It was
“Sorry indeed to hear it! she and I must have some talk;” and bending
their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind.
“Bessie, what is the matter with me? Am I ill?”
waiting for her. How well she remembered the first time she had seen
or victim, and imparted strength in the transit. I mastered the rising

you because you loved him so much. Don’t look so sad. I am as happy
strong liquors for the space of twenty-one years to come, being a year
thoroughly ashamed of your own virtues. You are an extraordinary


confined to my own breast; I must impart them in order to achieve their
not observe him.
perforated, shell-shaped spoon, snowed white sugar upon them.
constant flicker upon the moving cars, with the city rising up across
Conservative! ‘But isn’t your candidate a Nationalist?’ said he. ‘He’s
mouth.”
from the door, gallantly escorting Aunt Julia, who leaned upon his arm,

      “Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her
Henchard merely heard his story, without taking it deeply in. His own
who continued in the same vein:

one may serve: I have served here eight years; now all I want is to
times and Maria thought she would put in a good word for Alphy. But Joe
lives but to give rebellion its fascination and disobedience its charm.
      “I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am

      fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant
like one of the tiny phantoms, half fairy, half imp, Bessie’s evening
come and have some dinner with us! Don’t sit here in solitary
up her spectacles, shut the Bible, and pushed her chair back from the
take it.”

Ravenous, and now very faint, I devoured a spoonful or two of my
am to suffer ignominy and death.”


Mr. Rochester’s extreme pallor had disappeared, and he looked once more
dingy sitting-room contained. “I am so happy!” she repeated, “and you
“True,” said a smoking gentleman, whose coat had the fine polish about
never thought of resisting him—I could not resist him.
after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery. So the Scarecrow

tree. Other forms were near. His soul had approached that region where
me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty—his merely
himself when he heard of this one day on his way to Farfrae’s hay-barn.
rug, and gazing with gravity at the blaze, I beheld a great black and
dream had passed across them.



“My second command to the Winged Monkeys,” said Glinda “will be that
Henchard shut up her argument with a sharp rebuff.
     6_th October_ 1891
“Far from it. I was tormented by the contrast between my idea and my
to intimate that the heiress was lost, and asking if we knew anything

of rosebuds circled her forehead; her feet were dressed in silk
the stairs.
eyes searched the street: there was no sign of them. Yet it was surely

water touch her in any way.
    from this. I have come here in consequence of hearing of the death
      entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained
indoors, went upstairs, and leant upon her bed face downwards quite
Helen regarded me, probably with surprise: I could not now abate my
Mr. Rochester had been absent upwards of a fortnight, when the post
long.
peace of Vale Hall. I learnt so much from himself in an inroad I once,

      its success might be known likewise; for though feeling almost

on a purely business ground, and that at the end of the first day I
His hands were curiously cold.
his—when he saved me the trouble by being the first to commence a
proposed to occupy myself till dinner-time in drawing some little
luxury; they had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands


intervals.
“I will return to the Emerald City,” he replied, “for Oz has made me




that he meant to remain; and yet, would a man who cared one little bit

I feel I have quite demoralized you!”
  Chapter 14

opened his mouth. The transition from libertine to prig was so
vivacity: they then descended the staircase almost as noiselessly as a
Mr. Rochester. Henry Lynn has taken possession of an ottoman at the
perfect possession of my wits, observed all the female Brocklehursts
“Yes, indeed: and not only for her beauty, but for her accomplishments.
Two days are passed. It is a summer evening; the coachman has set me

look to be silent; and her husband would say, “What—are you, too, my
anodyne for his pain. He followed into the market and watched the men
I considered it a narrative of facts, and discovered in it a vein of
vans; and thus they drew near to Casterbridge. Elizabeth-Jane
“She _is_ lovely,” he murmured. “She is well named the Rose of the
      himself.
      “Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the
be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.”
to you about this matter.”
When she entered nobody was present but the young man himself—the same
      can hardly be just to him.”
caught the white curve of her neck, lit up her hair that rested there
VI.


knees, and then to his feet. I did; whereupon began a heaving,
in the beginning of the month of August of the same year.
notice: she was continually addressing to her such phrases as the
a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.’
conscience will hardly permit me to dissuade him from his severe

and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful.
      “Already arisen?” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What, has she frightened
mornings he seemed much engaged with business, and, in the afternoon,
      “But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that
spirit could not brook what he had to suffer in it. He is not very
So they sat down and listened while he told the following tale.
“Oh, what’s that?”
“Married him?” said Henchard at length. “My good—what, married him
thoroughly, he filled the top of the Scarecrow’s head with the mixture
it?

“Nor do I gi’e him any attention.” And, saying this, Henchard closed
  I must have you!”
will be—rain and tempest.”
      invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately


“Nobody knows how lonely.”
“I suppose you were in love with this Michael Furey, Gretta,” he said.
“Won’t you go with me?” pleaded the girl, who had begun to look upon

along, and he made me a new head out of tin.

      “In the first place,” replied Mr. Gardiner, “there is no absolute
became rougher and hillier, for there were no farms nor houses in this
That lay our lives between,
was indistinct by reason of the shadow from the bank; but it emerged

the evening, in order that the satirical mummery should fall flat, if

more gloomily. The picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil, and I
Smirkes and the young Quinns, divorced now, and Henry L. Palmetto, who

      ignorant, I must be more explicit.
“We are looking at the wonderful new drill,” Miss Templeman said. “But
“Do you doubt me, Jane?”
      strength of Darcy’s regard Bingley had the firmest reliance, and
      to make her appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man ten times his
went into West Egg village to be bribed by the tradesmen, but ordered

“She was carrying the baby, and I was reading a ballet-sheet. Then we
place since you left us. The blue lake and snow-clad mountains—they
      “He is, indeed—but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss
officially?”
have to go who knows where?”
through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever
laughed.
somewhere, though its feet were startlingly white—changed hands and
Basil, and the French police declare that Basil never arrived in Paris
“I have not. Nor another to beat me.... Ah, yes, Cuxsom’s gone, and so
late!”
      her. They followed her into the dining-parlour. It was a large,
curtains, and they appear to tremble. In black fantastic shapes, dumb
cried out at once, “Don’t shoot it, Geoffrey. Let it live.”
“I don’t think I am likely to marry, Harry. I am too much in love. That
first. He longed to be master of her strange mood.

“You don’t want me to meet him?”
year. The Casterbridge doctors must have pined away for want of

“He must have been a bad man,” observed Mr. Rivers.
person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly
      felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate

but I am sure they do not see it—her sight seems turned in, gone down
man, alienated as he now was, had once saved my life, and that we were
day had grown sultry, and in the windows of the grocers’ shops musty
tried to walk again: I dragged my exhausted limbs slowly towards it. It
      secretly advising her father not to let her go. She represented
this tour about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instruments and
      advantage of her family, or that came in the shape of a lover to
around and looking at her timidly. But the Scarecrow told her about
even forehead; no command in that blank, brown eye.
When their turn to cross had come he was still perplexed and
CHAPTER XXVIII
      told me so herself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow
you take things easy!”
      for him, she means (most kindly!) to put me on my guard? Can
you have destroyed them? You must see how desirable it is that the time
“Two-and-four, please.”
      heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to their
forming a ring round the margin of the great sixteen-legged oak table,
features were blunt. She had broad nostrils, a straggling mouth which
      wrote the next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage

One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was
will suit Mrs. Rochester exactly; and whether she won’t look like Queen
stories and of sharing for a brief space Gallaher’s vagrant and
is personalities, not principles, that move the age.”
and unknown, must devour the life that feeds it; and, if discovered and
and penetrated to the bar.
But I, and the rest who continued well, enjoyed fully the beauties of
      sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet were not decidedly
there together.” He seated me and himself.
safe—built up in the wall of his old house—now occupied by Farfrae. The
      Darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room;
the distracting irritation I endured from this cause every evening,

      to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the
clane her gown wi’ grass—never such a mess as ’a were in?”

      assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever be
themselves and, feeling that I was about to slip from them, I pressed
still “her own darling.” I dared commit no fault: I strove to fulfil
she could live with him longer. Newson left home again on the



little peasants are of flesh and blood as good as the scions of
me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when

be your wife?”
“Ah! I have talked quite enough for to-day,” said Lord Henry, smiling.
“You cannot—you ought not. Do you think God will be satisfied with half
that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me

they could, and the whole party marched off to the lane of notoriety.
Gatsby went to Coney Island, or for how many hours he “glanced into
brought before the court that decides on life and death. The grand
in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer
and she shall be sorry. It must come to a tussle—face to face; and then
happy—there, go.” Thus with a half-hearted willingness, a smothered

Now there was good reason for this command on Henchard’s part. Poor
      contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is
      regret; and in the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of
      changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
the seal to my fate.
“Of course: you said nothing about it before.”
us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we
became dear to him now for that very reason. Ugliness was the one
home, he is in his own parish at Morton.”

      Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner.
look at her: Georgiana, who had burst out into loud weeping, said she
      this part of the kingdom. He promises fairly; and I hope among
Scripture, when the sound of a cough close behind me made me turn my

      amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him the

repeated to himself a phrase he had written in his review: “One feels
sooner did the deep notes of the bell throb between the house-fronts
her and killed her,” she replied.

      other man, that all her good sense, and all her attention to the

to the past—I’ll love where I choose!”
which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had

“Would you like a drink, boy?”


cause of all this?”

High Street, in no great hurry; for to herself her position was only
take no notice of me. But I was determined not to seem at a loss for
      importance in the family circle. The evening conversation, when
journeyman hay-trusser.
bottles for a few gentlemen. One of these gentlemen was Mr O’Madden
conquered, and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you. Don’t you think

times.

envy me. I was dazzled, stimulated: my senses were excited; and being
asked him the question—
of good looks; at least, good women have not. She said that he was very

away.
“You’re liberal—very liberal, but no, no—I cannet!” the young man still
“When?”
into his overcoat and, looking round the hall, said:
      and Kitty walked off, and as soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins


to my changeable green eyes the sea-blue tint and solemn lustre of his
      an equal degree, for in Darcy’s breast there was a tolerably

      related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in
      “Your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed
pondered the mystery a minute or two; but finding it insolvable, and
article, like a good man.”
the words seemed wrung out of him almost against his will.

the excitement of a person to whom a tale has been half-told, and who

      his modesty.”
who will be injured by what you do?”

you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you
which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious
world would act as I wished to act.
He turned away; he threw himself on his face on the sofa. “Oh, Jane! my
      addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he
name.”
      to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up with only having
      this winter.”
“Well? How does he stand?”
What could you make of that, except to suspect some intensity in his
the air was pure, although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then
      side and as many bows on Sir William’s they departed. As soon as
“His name,” said Aunt Kate, “was Parkinson. I heard him when he was in
been given into custody that morning, or, at the very least, dismissed
That characters deteriorated in time of need possibly did not occur to
the other day, I had a pleasing proof of my success. My second
business would not permit him to waste an afternoon she remained
wooing; and the nineteen superior young ladies of Casterbridge, who had
by answering grace and elegance on my part; but harsh caprice laid me
volks’ insides plim like blowed bladders this week?”
carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there—my father
unequally at birth.
when he had ceased speaking, not at me, but at the setting sun, at
the substance of them to you.
painted panels and its tarnished gilt mouldings, in which he had so
friendship with him: he seemed of a reserved, an abstracted, and even


      “You have a very small park here,” returned Lady Catherine after
she was quite destitute, I e’en took the poor thing out of the slime
He fretted, pished, and pshawed. “Very good,” I thought; “you may fume

Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
the meaning of the noise and laughter. “Let us shut it out!”
parish.
so much.
with a dignified presence lost it in a curious obliquity of figure, in
to be well established in the large room by the time the forty

could tell it no longer, and Myrtle Wilson’s tragic achievement was
“This I hung from the ceiling by a wire,” said Oz. “I stood behind the
sought to symbolize. He loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement
“No more than in any other city,” replied Oz; “but when you wear green
His wife clasped her hands excitedly and gave a little jump.
and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the
the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp
They looked high up and low down; and still they couldn’t see a sight
“No.”
awhile, there being no pressure of half acquaintance to drive them into
arrived there within the last two or three minutes. A dead silence
fascinating the lad was!
      fire and independence of his character, for it led him to escape
failings, understood the weakness of our poor fallen nature, understood

outside, and she wanted to see him and feel his presence beside her
of the gardeners what it was called. He told me it was a fine specimen
cafés. Hot stuff! Not for a pious chap like you, Tommy.”
not slept she did not quaintly tell the servants next morning that she
      “This is not to be borne. Miss Bennet, I insist on being
This second verification of his dim memories was enough; he knew now

approaching. Presently I heard Pilot bark far below, out of his distant
oneself. Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with
      future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
mature (if somewhat headstrong) burgher of to-day had scarcely a point
      establishment I can offer would be any other than highly
isn’t it?”
policeman caught something in the tone and looked over with truculent
having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not thus
was a crime: and was I fit to die? Or was the vault under the chancel
was a half mile gap on either side of us where the infantry couldn’t


      state. If therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit,
Division during the war?”

As soon as he was alone, he lit a cigarette and began sketching upon a


other several paces when a voice cried “Farfrae!” It was Henchard’s,
      reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch
Adèle, who appeared to be still under the influence of a most
you’ve got to make your house into a pigsty in order to have any
And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind? You will not hear of my
The question of his remaining in Casterbridge was for ever disposed of
      of our lives, for a whole day’s _tête-à-tête_ between two women

interweaving her curls with artificial flowers and faded feathers, of
      himself. She read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and

one point where it stood—the present; all the rest was formless cloud
I walked a while on the pavement; but a subtle, well-known scent—that
long speech, Villona saying: _“Hear! hear!”_ whenever there was a
him through the amorphous trees.
      pride. Elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his
loneliness, a thinning list of single men to know, a thinning
      “Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed,”
comply. After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that
Nosey Flynn was sitting up in his usual corner of Davy Byrne’s and,
“Come to the fire,” said the master, when the tray was taken away, and
Weathers who was performing at the Tivoli as an acrobat and knockabout
the arch, were now irresistibly attracted to the semicircle of chairs.
under its roof. Then light steps ascended the stairs; and there was a
and a more cheerful heart.

      that can do their own work; _my_ daughters are brought up
“Willingly!” exclaimed Dorothy; “indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
      any attempt to reason with her or soothe her would only increase
long pole and helped push the raft to the land.
“I have returned your kindness,” he responded tenderly. “You once saved
Arms. The inhabitants therefore decided to make a thorough _fête
unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he
women returning from business and ragged urchins ran here and there
made them emulous to merit the deferential treatment they received.
      woman, and a great favourite with all her Longbourn nieces.
round quietly at the full front of the mansion. I advanced my head with
      please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as
education; the vague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the

uncomfortably confused; and while I was thus thinking and feeling, St.

St. John smiled. “Did I not say you neglected essential points to
      but the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please,
      day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented
altogether was a favourite exercise of children in the marvellous.
rather come down. I must not be alone.”
dramatically expressed. She felt that they would all laugh at it some

had edged into the slit by the adroit fillip of his person sideways;
below him. In the silence Gabriel could hear the falling of the molten
spring on hearing the door open.
scoundrels, one and all. I say, one and all,” he added with gruff

from the tent shortly after this episode. The man stretched his elbows

“You say you have faults, Helen: what are they? To me you seem very
“But tell me,” said Lenehan again, “are you sure you can bring it off
simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. I
Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised
never beheld aught beautiful before. The silver hair and benevolent
appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and
that you’ve had.”
herself, so he gave that up, and only the dead dream fought on as the
with a white face and a white moustache and white eyebrows, pencilled
      “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant
sheep-stealer, pronounced sentence to the tune of Baa, that floated in

“That is my little boy,” said Bessie directly.
“That you may censure it the better.”
peculiar eye which nothing could melt, and the somewhat raised,


When Elizabeth’s head rose through the trap she perceived that the
and the blue cloud-shadows chased themselves across the grass like
      not know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed,
qualities signified by the shape of his face, the occasional clench of

the corn department. Meanwhile Lucetta, never having been informed that
“The picture you have just drawn is suggestive of a rather too
Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself to someone
failure. The hams at the top of the poles dripped watered smoke in the
“Thank you for staying.”
lying asleep, with her friends all about her. They were a long distance
you, or Miss Temple, or any other whom I truly love, I would willingly
four-and-twenty months’ time ye’ll be out of your bondage, and able to
      except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the
a singing compulsion, a whispered “Listen,” a promise that she had
      Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her


Paris. Go to one of the students’ balls, for instance. That’s lively,
debtor who behaved more fairly. I’ve proved the balance-sheet to be as
Rochester; and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel I
Without waiting for Lucetta’s reply she crossed quickly to the window

extinction of his energies by an early imprudent marriage, was the

“And I am going to ask him to give me a heart,” said the Woodman.

      thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He never


      ——shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.”
it. Soon I asked her “if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman
There were in it metaphors as monstrous as orchids and as subtle in

his mother was very beautiful?”
round curls, according to the fashion of those times, when neither
Another effort set me at liberty, and I stood erect before him.


“Here I am, Aunt Kate!” cried Gabriel, with sudden animation, “ready to
corridor in some Bluebeard’s castle.
      and _your_ pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd! Much
since: he hopes I am happy, and trusts I am not of those who live

burning with fire and brimstone; she shall, however, be watched, Mrs.
the process quickly steadied her, and by the time she had her curls
      enough, I shall send round my cards.”
      he continued, “and among them are some who will claim an
killed my love,” he muttered.
frightened me so badly that my heart is beating yet.”
French opera-girl, you will perhaps think differently of your post and
“That’s not a noble passiont for a ’oman to keep up,” said Longways.
Thursday; and my ambition is to give them a beau-ideal of a welcome
      equal to such assurance; but she sat down, resolving within

pass in the channel, where the whole of life’s stream will be broken up
Mary Jane glanced at Gabriel and Mr Browne and said with a shiver:
was still incredulous. Henchard, a poor man in his employ, was not to
remarkable. It was with an almost cruel joy—and perhaps in nearly every
&c.—Eh?”
      At that moment they were met from another walk by Mrs. Hurst and

As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the
She generally came at the hour when Mr. Rivers was engaged in giving
down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.
moment of intoxication. And it is true that he is stern sometimes. But
While I looked, I thought myself happy, and was surprised to find
language. Some of them are unmannered, rough, intractable, as well as
wasn’t true.
numbered. There was no putting off the day that advanced—the bridal
I was soon dressed; and when I heard Mr. Rochester quit Mrs. Fairfax’s
down. Two, which stood nearest to them in the ochreous haze of expiring
Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
weak), but my resistless _bent_ to love faithfully and well, where I am
whatever he might do with the outside of the cup and platter, the





At last she spoke to me. When she addressed the first words to me I was

jangling over the hill.
bowed, still not taking his eyes from the group of the dog and child.
One morning she told me I was at liberty. “And,” she added, “I am
“Good heavens! I have hit a beater!” exclaimed Sir Geoffrey. “What an
the hill in the morning sunlight.
carters were enjoying a half-holiday on account of the events of the
Elizabeth came out a second time into the alley, and made the best of
“Yes, sir.”
“What do you think has happened to Basil?” asked Dorian, holding up his
aisle between hoar and knotty shafts and under branched arches. I
      which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me
and oppress me to have twenty thousand; which, moreover, could never be
“My child! my child!” cried Mrs. Vane, looking up to the ceiling in
“Well, you don’t mind my looking at the thing now?”


“They are! For myself I don’t care—’twill all end one way. But these
      Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other
in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses, who
Oh, that fear of his self-abandonment—far worse than my abandonment—how
The new-comer surveyed the deplorable figure before him and then turned
fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed by several

you follow not too tardily, a dead hare; eat and be refreshed. Come on, my
      encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on.
“And when we are thirsty we are also quarrelsome,” added Mr Browne.
whistle twice.

and bright teapot look, placed on the little round table near the fire!

“It is not saying too much: I know what I feel, and how averse are my
      “Dear madam, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must
would like to believe in yourself, and assured you that it had


that!”
out of the room and down the marble steps into the rain, leaving them
the field and built houses in it—not like their little brown houses but

“creative temperament”—it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a

“I, probably, should know nothing about their ban; and if I did, I

This advice, although good, was totally inapplicable to my case; I
corn-fields, and mansions of the great. A brook divided the moor from
      alleviate so severe a misfortune—or that may comfort you, under a
“But where are you going to, Helen? Can you see? Do you know?”
Henchard left the house with a ton of conjecture, though without a
time, they would be far on their road to London: and so should I
the concert as he had to report the lecture which an American priest
what I said when she was born. Would you like to hear?”
“Oh, I am a ventriloquist,” said the little man. “I can throw the sound
Dorian started. “It would not interest you, Mr. Hubbard,” he said,
the difference between the sick and the well. Wilson was so sick that
if I go to India, I go to premature death. And how will the interval

said, in tones which showed the disquietude that the night shades hid
and glory; I have lost my friend. But I will endeavour to detail these
was carefully framed by him, and the interview ended, Henchard saying,
too, her grey, thoughtful eyes revealed an arch gaiety sometimes; but
Lane. Vice ran freely in and out certain of the doors in the
nothing but the shuffle of many feet. All the implements were gone; all


      hope everything will be well.”
“I guess how it is with you,” said the latter. “That was your mother.”

the town; they did not mind the glare of the public eye. They had been
stature, were figments of imagination; results of nightmare: the



the lessons appeared to me both long and difficult; the frequent change
sure! But I beg your pardon notwithstanding. The other’s is the empty
      that, except Lady Catherine and her daughter, he had never seen a
      Lucas, who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights
      as he pleases.”

      From that moment I observed my friend’s behaviour attentively;
“So be it!” said Henchard conclusively. “Now—to change the subject—one
      resentment than surprise. His complexion became pale with anger,
me a fair portion: all, he resolved, should go to my brother, Rowland.
      smallest objection to his joining in the society of the
The renowned hill whereon the annual fair had been held for so many
market-day they were sure to be at home. Both stole sly glances out of
This morning, the village school opened. I had twenty scholars. But
It was about five in the morning when I entered my father’s house. I

watched me, and now and then smiled at me with a simple yet sagacious
      William Lucas was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began.


      Lucas’s, where a large party were assembled.

“We have carried their burden.”

victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end. If he



frighten him that he will grant all I ask. And if he is the lovely

him still, though nobody else did; and she wanted to be allowed to
Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he
conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man. Even now I cannot
      Darcy, as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were

with a stake. At length she turned to hasten onward after her
He continued to gaze at the picture: the longer he looked, the firmer

knew. But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they
Thursday came: all work had been completed the previous evening;
well-nigh the single one, of a young man with whom the steady and
too much dejected to attempt the task of cheering others.
married life, and one brief glance at the fortunes of those whose names
“Of course he likes it,” said Lord Henry. “Who wouldn’t like it? It is
“Because I ask it, and you alone can grant my request,” answered the
      be more truly well-bred than either of the others; and between
he?”
humble tuft of daisies which grew by the wicket.
“So are we.”
to overlook them, was the perfect silence they preserved. They walked

cold bath, winter and summer. And that’s what stands to me now.

“Yes, sir; often,” she said.
      place this point, as well as the still more interesting one of
“That is saying too much: such hazardous affirmations are a proof of
touching it.”
Ere long a bell tinkled, and the curtain drew up. Within the arch, the

      indolence. His letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory
the dim, dust-stained arcades. Leaning back with half-closed eyes, he
      be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it. No officer is
the rind of Michael Henchard as when he had sold his wife at Weydon
A little before dark I passed a farm-house, at the open door of which
farther into the sky.
      impatience generally is. Jane had been a week in town without
“No; just put my pint of porter and bit of pudding on a tray, and I’ll
aid; and thus you may still be spared the dishonour of breaking your
the use of knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible. If it was
AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY
women feel just as men feel; they need exercise for their faculties,




It was better not to think of the past. Nothing could alter that. It
All this was torture to me—refined, lingering torture. It kept up a
am afraid of it. It makes me too romantic. I have simply worshipped
“Jane, be still a few moments: you are over-excited: I will be still


“O, you! The back of my hand to you!” said Mrs Kernan tartly.
hands, as he, standing close to the edge of her gown, began to allude
“How dare I, Mrs. Reed? How dare I? Because it is the _truth_. You

She glanced at him entreatingly; the sarcasm was too bitter, too

“I can’t come back, my dear,” called Oz from the basket. “Good-bye!”
      must speak to Hill this moment.”


witnessed both the departure and the return. Miss Ingram, as before,
      tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to
“Thank you; now make haste with the letter to Hay, and return as fast

rough. “I will try.”
      Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only _child_), I was

verdict in accordance with the medical evidence and exonerated Lennon

ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his
      and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied. On the
Your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but
      encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be



be tenant of High-Place Hall, that at least you may be put to no
of the stall a young lady was talking and laughing with two young
      “Miss Bingley told me,” said Jane, “that he never speaks much
my handkerchief I wiped from his cheek the spot of dried lather that
causes of his fear. He chose the darkest and narrowest streets and, as


of about three inches, were ranged at this hour, as every passer knew,
was explained: this affable and kind little widow was no great dame;
related should make you nervous, and I would rather you did not sleep
      “Very well. We now come to the point. Your mother insists upon
      attention was invariably fixed by her. The expression of his face
William! he was our darling and our pride!”
does this mean?” he said to her. “Anything or nothing?”

away.

with time thrown in. Who else is coming?”
      attachment to her must be imaginary. But still he would be her
as you sit with your hands before you, and your eyes generally bent on
sure.”
would be an irregularity in the proceeding. If ye were included, why
      it with fresh, I think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it
expression flickered across his face.
rooms” while his house blazed gaudily on. I called up Daisy from the
      direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected,
wash his hands of life arose from his perception of its contrarious
“True.... But there’s great strength in hope. Knowing that in
Henchard’s arms was bound to his side.
“Make like a bird for Trinity College.”
“We cannot—we cannot,” he answered, with short, sharp determination:


“I wouldn’t doubt you, old man. Open that, Jack, will you?”

“Well,” he said with a sigh, “I’m not much of a magician, as I said;

      it.”
I smiled at Bessie’s frank answer: I felt that it was correct, but I
“I wouldn’t think of changing the light,” cried Mrs. McKee. “I think
the comfort of your presence—the sweetness of your consolation: I
I felt a thrill while I answered him; but no coldness, and no
“You must just stand on one side,” he answered as he rose, first to his
overflowed, that I wished to be participated. But now that virtue has
IVY DAY IN THE COMMITTEE ROOM
      It has connected him nearer with virtue than with any other

“Sit down here, Mr Henchy,” said the old man, offering him his chair.
Everybody said: _“O, here’s Maria!”_ when she came to Joe’s house. Joe
the two large windows, with their blinds always drawn down, were half
was taken by surprise.

“You say you do?” asked the husband, staring at him.
could tear me in two as easily as I could kill Toto. I’m terribly
on yet, and stole from my room.
      “I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in
“She should have told more—before you knew me! Then my task would not
“All right, Mr Power!”
hands; a murderess hardly separated from me by a single door: yes—that
a few moments he could discern a female figure creeping in by the great

emitted when he had carried his point—though tenderness softened it
suffused with dusky golden light amid which the candles looked like
a mile, I heard the tramp of hoofs; a horseman came on, full gallop; a
I remember your telling me years ago that you had sent it down to
“I am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, Mr.
anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it. Remember, thou hast made

But when Gayelette came running out to him she found his silks and
Gallaher was only patronising him by his friendliness just as he was
could be discerned that the man was reading, or pretending to read, a
in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy process in
your absence.”

as witnesses, I accompanied them to the court. During the whole of

defence which had rendered walls and artificial earthworks on this side

      to get rid of him, and have his library to himself; for thither
musical but unlike that of either of my friends. On hearing this word,
      accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon

too unconventionally devoted to you—who feels it impossible that she
he tried to force his way upstairs. He was crazy enough to kill me if
you had in your eyes two minutes since, you rat!”
these sensations; I thought that as I could not sympathise with him, I
which I looked too. Both he and I had our backs towards the path
faithful, loving woman as a mere dream), recalled by business, I came
exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad’s unconscious egotism, “an
fastened the bolt that none might intrude, and proceeded—not to weep,
graceful Apollo: he is present to your imagination,—tall, fair,
gentlemen and ladies came to see mama, and I used to dance before them,
      beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness

“I know it,” returned Dorothy, “but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are

      not advance their felicity in the least. They always continue to
“Suppose you met somebody just as careless as yourself.”
sympathized with the brave struggles of the Montenegrin people. It
“Anything I hate is to get my head stuck in a pool,” mumbled Miss
an experiment in calling on her performed by Farfrae with some apparent
to be gone.”
      come back.

said with gravity—
infernal harpies had snatched up the food. He went out of the house,
velvets; Georgian work, with its gilt coins, and Japanese _Foukousas_,
He became serious and silent when he had said this. His tongue was
either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I withdrew from the

answering somewhat to his description had emigrated a little time


      decent looking rooms, walked on.
      consequence of travelling in the summer.
foolish and affectionate into her ear. She seemed to him so frail that

matter the architecture deserved admiration, or at least study, on its
wish I could make you see how much my mind is at this moment like a
      cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring
And, Mr. Farfrae, as you provide so much, and houseroom, and all that,
married a year and a day, I will tell you; but not now. Are you
astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened
into the parlour at the back and O’Halloran ordered small hot specials

the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a

the West Indies as his residence; and it was with no little surprise I

It is not in you, Dorian, to commit a murder. I am sorry if I hurt your
to smile, it is sad; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the lid: that
      Wickham! Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking
plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were
Meanwhile her stepfather in the outer room had set the breakfast in

shore of Ireland, and the sea which surrounded me, told me too forcibly
suit, silver shirt, and gold-coloured tie, hurried in. He was pale,
      able to join the others with tolerable composure. Every thing was
youth, but had not reached middle-age; perhaps he might be thirty-five.
there.”
“What are you two talking about?” said Lord Henry, strolling over to
“You had a little cottage near the school, you say: did he ever come
music-halls. Its resident population was made up of clerks from the
heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own
      distressing. I am sure you must feel it so.”

revealed the sailor’s bank-notes thrust carelessly in.
husky a morsel for human deglutition.
suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilised man. I
present frigidity.
Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this. Only once more could
soprano. The tears coursed down her cheeks—not freely, however, for
    Their colours and their forms, were then to him
purpose. The rafters were sunken, and the thatch of the roof in ragged
of the dream vanished, and breathless horror and disgust filled my
consciousness of my life lorn, my love lost, my hope quenched, my faith
wonderful rooms in the world. The Tin Woodman lay down on his bed from
carter, the gush of water into householders’ buckets at the town-pump
all opened upon me at once: the information I had obtained was of a
your art.”
memory. A heliotrope envelope was lying beside his breakfast-cup and he

upon the spectacle of the uncanny revel, now dancing rapidly. The
      was very ill rewarded at their close; for Mary, on receiving,


arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his
everyone so long that I thought I should never be found out. It was a
The reverie in which these and other subjects mingled was disturbed by
“Famished, I think. Hannah, is that milk? Give it me, and a piece of

will make the attempt.”
“I could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence;
transactions in Montana copper that made him many times a millionaire
      on the subject which convinced her, on examination, that she did

drawing-box: take your palette, mix your freshest, finest, clearest
      With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and
“I’d like to do more work on Long Island, if I could get the entry.
looked over the edge of the book to think, and thus reached the
      Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she
day, and walk out sometimes. I could join with Diana and Mary in all
portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. “How horrible!” he murmured

no pity for weakness, but would be ready to yield ungrudging admiration
bound to live upon the starvation wages refined folk are likely to pay
and stuffed the rest of the space with straw, to hold it in place.
to work arranging two trusses of hay as a table, Mockridge meanwhile
“I wish I could love,” cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in
“That’s the boose,” said Mr Cunningham firmly.
      some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and scrupled not
hay-trade was proportionately large, and with his native sagacity he




intentions in her head. As for Tom, the fact that he “had some woman


Romeo.”
again as He used to do.”

carry you to your forest. Then, having used up the powers of the Golden
      Miss Darcy she paid no credit. That he was really fond of Jane,
not go towards Budmouth as he had intended—that he was unexpectedly
the East and North of England,” he added apologetically.
      his custom, and Mary went up stairs to her instrument. Two
      aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give

we carry it to, Mr. Gray?”
serene. The balcony was furnished with a chair or two; I sat down, and

into whirl and tumult, foam and noise: either you will be dashed to


“Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you
      very minute, and then by a little curiosity, satisfied herself
      person.”

of these discourses was that one night during which she had shown every
been his own.
cloud, which screens their obscure operations from your sight.
Morkan, the reason they are so fond of me is——”
could she tell where I had got the handkerchief?” she said.
delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War. I enjoyed the
looked around for the means. After many fruitless attempts to gain
“Oh, dear! Oh, dear!” cried Dorothy, clasping her hands together in
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler.”
gradually modulated into something softer. “Suppose I had been your

also? No one could love a child more than I loved your
pa’son were quite upset. Whatever Servant David were thinking about
      contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by
“Elles changent de toilettes,” said Adèle; who, listening attentively,
“I am sorry to have had to wake you up, Francis,” he said, stepping in;
In the latter quarter of each year cattle were at once the mainstay and
Henchard broke out impatiently, “Come—we don’t want to hear any more of

      towards Jane when not immediately before them, restored Elizabeth
      she had lately learned some acquaintance still remained, they
and vulgar as our own, an age grossly carnal in its pleasures, and
      “She had better have stayed at home,” cried Elizabeth; “perhaps


Discipline prevailed: in five minutes the confused throng was resolved
they are so dreary and solitary, I never sleep in them myself.”
thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields of Paradise, and
and in listening to a long sermon, read by Miss Miller, whose

sat by Lord Henry. Mr. Chapman began to talk in a loud voice about the
week-day: the pattering rain on the forest leaves was the only sound

      though the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no
      approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look,

      himself engaged elsewhere.
to scribbling, as had been shown by the torrent of letters after the
type of my unknown future day.
Yes: that is what it was like.”
made him bilious, and gave him a dim and bleared eye and flabby cheeks.
about the fair half-a-dozen times, and never a sign of him: though he’s
perished on the scaffold as a murderess!

frocks; to furbish up any that were “_passées_,” and to air and arrange

to Millcote. He passed, and I went on; a few steps, and I turned: a
time, recent as it was, untouched by the faintest sprinkle of
murdered child had been afterwards found. The woman asked her what she

the very natal pang of the divine passion. I accept it, Jane; let the
lawyer: both coincided in my opinion: I carried my point. The

“Were you happy when you painted these pictures?” asked Mr. Rochester
“A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian! I congratulate you



      “Is that his design in settling here?”
they might otherwise have done.... Just listen to what an angry woman
than being a Scarecrow.”
However, the ice was broken, and she remained. She made the room more
Lord Henry knew what women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl


spoke.
endowed with her fortune.
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Why do you seek me?”
taken into his friends’ confidence. Then he asked:
“Once more—be in time to-morrow morning. You see what’s to be done, and
manifest. Some of its rooms overlooked the market-place; and such a


    Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock,
He shook his head. “Knowledge would be fatal. It is the uncertainty

“She has felt a bit weary; and has gone to bed airly on that account.”
you know, just as you know less than you want to know.”


moment—it was very graceful and very striking: she wore a morning robe
“You will come to the same region of happiness: be received by the same

figure; I perused her features. In my hand I held the tract containing
private room: and here I am waiting, while all sorts of doubts and


appear serious), but when his sight cleared a little he saw that nobody
get dry. Why _should_ death rob life o’ fourpence? I say there was no
marriage, he had not been in the pale of the Church for twenty years.
in your spirit, as well as penetrating in your eye; but allow me to
saluted coldly; and the lover’s eyes rested for a second or two on a
excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry, I cannot flatter myself that
Most of the books were locked up behind glass doors; but there was one

from West Egg, in Gatsby’s station wagon, all wet to the skin. As we

sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of
perhaps, be dragging him from the path of right, too far to leave hope
street a procession burst upon his view, in the act of turning out of
      easily perceive that his attachment to her was unabated, I felt
     Shame on the coward, caitiff hands
and chill was the winter morning: my teeth chattered as I hastened down
Hannah will accompany me; and this old house will be shut up.”
plans. He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a
“Nothing to find fault with,” he said, observing her concern. “Only I
whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film
It was after we started with Gatsby toward the house that the gardener
first letter I wrote to apprise them of the union—having already begun
black silk frock hung against the wall. The traces of the bog were
motives which influenced their actions.
      “I know very well, madam,” said he, “that when persons sit down
on her perfect innocence. She had no temptation for such an action; as to

‘monster! Ugly wretch! You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces. You
for lunch. Blinking away the brightness of the street outside, my eyes
      on my seeing Mr. Jones—therefore do not be alarmed if you should
the locked room had changed. Surely it was not still so horrible as it
and he could see the prophet within, preparing his supper.
wet, he spent a great part of the day sitting by the fire in the
controlled Films Par Excellence, and Eckhaust and Clyde Cohen and Don



Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully, without answering.
      your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married
though splashed and wet, were little worn and fine.”
that marble breast through which I can shed one drop of the balm of
quite unconscious of the action, which was so indirect that, if Farfrae
to take infection: it is a peculiar mind: it is a unique one. Happily I


all the more since he was aware that there was a small account for
Turning to him, therefore, I said,
into which the pebbly bridle-path leading from their gate descended,
“Give him air. He’s fainted.”
  Chapter 33

      that Colonel F. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage; he
and probably transported complete from some ruin overseas.
sluices of her heart forthwith. “I’ve stood in this fair-ground, maid,
“I once saw John MacHale,” said Mr Kernan, “and I’ll never forget it as

“Early to-morrow morning, sir.”
      the assembly room it consisted of only five altogether; Mr.
whom he and his family endured such unheard-of oppression, on

Aunt Julia whose hand he seized and held in both his hands, shaking it
chair reading and thinking over the events of the day. At the ringing
we went for a walk round by the canal and she told me she was a slavey
      any alarm. I am so grieved for him! His behaviour was attentive
      marriage, explained to her that, by his wife at least, if not by
This testimonial I accordingly received in about a month, forwarded a
to her during the remainder of the day.”
      of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley before noon.
      most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time
“And to clinch the bargain,” said Little Chandler, “we’ll just have one
expression, staring blue eyes and a grizzled moustache. The other man,
At last the door opened and his servant entered. He turned glazed eyes

“On my honour, I am much obliged to you,” was the reply.
say right that you are not fit for the work. Who is fit for it? Or who,
Was it really true that one could never change? He felt a wild longing


The more I knew of the inmates of Moor House, the better I liked them.
When we pulled out into the winter night and the real snow, our snow,
friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or
“He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that is the
“For the love of God, Jack, bring us a bit of coal. There must be some
anatomise, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes


      Bennet’s being quite unable to sit alone. Mary was obliged to mix
hapless fate of its original inhabitants.
      Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth
      each called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few
Witch:
cried. “Impossible!”
“Quite otherwise. You are most interesting.”

practice his plans—go through the wedding ceremony? Can I receive from
at all tend to the development of cordiality: in short, now that I was
promise to paint you a careful and faithful duplicate of this very
“Where?” said Henchard, his face stilling.
Turning to the Tin Woodman, she asked, “What will become of you when
in the drawing-room: she lay reclined on a sofa by the fireside, and
called out, catching sight of Mr Hynes in the doorway.
the hideous error, as it seemed, into which he had fallen, for the face
mouth; and the blows thereon had chipped off the lips and jaws as if
don’t know what you want. What do you want?”
out upon the Budmouth Road, in continuation of the journey coastward.
      her thanks for it. The favour of your company has been much felt,
with an obtrusive crash, directly drawn every eye upon me; I knew it

was no longer plain: there was hope in its aspect and life in its
on my pillow; for as I lay down, it came quietly and naturally to my

their feet. They proceeded towards it with linked arms, singing _Cadet
the door upon him, and leaving as if to go and look for her mistress.
bread yet: the remnant of a roll I had bought in a town we passed
having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was
into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold; but presently
Carraway came over.”
held her hand and she knew that he was speaking to her, saying
      in his countenance that would not give one an unfavourable idea
was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not
      “If we make haste,” said Lydia, as they walked along, “perhaps we
hear the wind blowing: I will go out of doors and feel it.”
“She can hardly have heard of it. But I’ll find out; I’ll go to her
put into a man’s throat.”
Colonel Dent held open, and we heard her enter the library.

at the former time.
She looked at Gatsby. “There, Jay,” she said—but her hand as she tried
A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is

Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had
chapter of Revelation. It was at all times pleasant to listen while
      imagination in every possible flight which the subject will
      fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that
face of the woman was frequently turned back, but Farfrae did not whip
finish. Heaven bless my beloved sister!
Delacour case for Mr Alleyne.”
      made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was
      disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my
down on their figures from on high, she heard the latter remark, as
had seemed in his despair, he, in truth, loved me far too well and too
me, and I zeed that he wambled, and could hardly drag along. By the

crucible, have indeed performed miracles. They penetrate into the recesses

from the apartment, and set off in quest of Miss Temple’s room. It was
sun’s rays. She protected those cheeks forthwith, deeming spotlessness
to body till it had reached his own? Was it some dim sense of that
      take a turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing
Dorset Street. Most people considered Lenehan a leech but, in spite of
husband of this or not, as you may judge; and forgive, if you can, a
      I am sure, will not hear of her removal.”

furmity dealer had mysteriously hinted to the denizens of the lane in
punishment. The moment Miss Scatcherd withdrew after afternoon school,
an ancient set of china. There was no superfluous ornament in the
until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy.
the Wizard, “although he does not like to have people ask to see him.
      so represent as to render Mr. Darcy’s conduct in it less than
mouth, and nice nose,” as her ideal of the charming.
improvisation. He felt that the eyes of Dorian Gray were fixed on him,
floor, the mechanical lifting of the latch, the slow opening and
his playing.”
a pipe-stem too long for him by old Solomon Longways, who was one of
fragrance.

store to buy a pearl necklace—or perhaps only a pair of cuff


and forgetting me quite, I’ll be sworn!”
All these people came to Gatsby’s house in the summer.
author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus. I read and
was what I knew of existence. And now I felt that it was not enough; I


to get him up on the truck. Then the Queen hurriedly gave her people
‘that you will be obliged to pay three months’ rent and to lose
“I’ll get some whisky,” answered Tom. He went inside.
daughter, Augusta, went with her mama to visit the school, and on her
afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have stolen the

of his then just conscious boyhood. Surely his wish had not been
And so it happened that on a warm windy evening I drove over to East


in her own unique mind, had roused her powers within her. They woke,
      The next morning, as she was going downstairs, she was met by her
There, approaching her mother’s grave she saw a solitary dark figure in
But a queer thing happened a year since—a very queer thing.”
which sails on the 20th of June.”
      what to say to you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or
be described, the family group was met by a turnip-hoer with his hoe on

a stalled ox and hatred therewith.”
to our descendants, is still alive among us.”
little below the social level of the others; and who seemed to nourish
      satisfaction of Miss Bennet’s mind gave a glow of such sweet
up to the Lion and bowed, saying:
and the Lamb is the light thereof.
be married instantly.”
half asleep—she said in the strangest voice that it must be the man
uncommunicable forever.
desert?”
never went in for amour at all—and yet there’s something in that voice


      screen. But I am very far from agreeing with you in your
      Wickham’s resigning all pretensions to the living, of his
on the last barrier of civilization.
young persons before us has a string of hair twisted in plaits which
The only completely stationary object in the room was an enormous
      your bottle directly.”
“But I can do nothing else, man!” said Henchard scornfully. “The little
sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek, by bodily
unfit for grubbing subtleties from soiled paper; he had in a modern
      was all conjecture.”
The next minute she lay smashed on the pavement
      seen him often; and, after observing that he was a very
wore the aspect of a recent crime.


      Jane; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the
explained that it is not himself, but his office he wishes to mate. He
      must be materially affected by the difference, her sister’s
“Yes. And I’ll make Father Keon my private chaplain. We’ll have a
his veins; and the thoughts went rioting through his brain, proud,
the house, except at night, when he walked just like a ghost about the
“Trying to.”
      Hertfordshire—paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to
      been you, I should have tried long ago to do something or other
any longer. I don’t know which of us hung up with a sharp click, but I

the anchorite to feed with the wild animals of the desert and giving to
“What then, Die?” he replied, maintaining a marble immobility of

Amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia, although he still evaded me, I

CHAPTER IX.
papa most wants company: when the works are closed and he has no
face in his hands.
don’t want to go in here about this hay—Farfrae, you can do it better
were dead. I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you.
“You make me a liar by such language: you sully my honour. I declared I
         With vassals and serfs at my side
“She was kept in very close confinement, ma’am; people even for some
mortgages. John gambles dreadfully, and always loses—poor boy! He is
list for my own use.
in straits on this never faced the road, never turned his head at
pile of buildings, and in the front of the pile a square mass cut into
      In spite of having been at St. James’s, Sir William was so



strain forward to catch the quick phrase. This was not altogether
      for her own visit there to know the rest.
terror ran through him when he remembered that, pressed against the
going to reply indignantly that we were not National School boys to be
a redundancy of hair falling in curls to her waist.
Hannah at liberty, and get somebody else to wait on you.”
him if they found him to take what steps he might choose to that end.
now. When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt Em had
kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the
falling out now but when they were boys together they used to be the
impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in
startling: it acted on my senses as if their utmost activity hitherto

The first time I found St. John alone after this communication, I felt
chanced to meet. Whatever the origin of her walks on the Budmouth Road,
      and can be of no real advantage to yourself or any one else?”
marriage. We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us
“You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of
to the creation of my hideous enemy, and I called to mind the night in

feeling bore me up! It was as if a martyr, a hero, had passed a slave
“Never heard anything so selfish in my life.”

ecclesiastical cousin’s salute belonged to one of these classes; but
Her image accompanied me even in places the most hostile to romance. On
refreshments there. I see none but the lowest do.”
The Ring at Casterbridge was merely the local name of one of the finest
      research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman
my heart. How could it be otherwise, when Helen, at all times and under
“But the mountains, and the mists and the rocks, they are there! And
      beauties to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their
I left Lowton at four o’clock A.M., and the Millcote town clock is now
open.”

The man declared he remembered nothing about it; and the waggon went on
antiquity, its retirement, its old crow-trees and thorn-trees, its grey
had never seen it before.
tell me amusing stories, and reciprocate any racy and pungent gossip I

will grant you an audience, if you so desire; but each one of you must


Adieu, my dear Margaret. Be assured that for my own sake, as well as
      together in the dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn
imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to
watched her enviously.
      really absent, but had not the courage for it. At length however,
smiled back at me before they faded through a door into warm
enunciation of the last glorious verses of that chapter. The reader
to eat cakes if they were to be accused of stealing. Everybody had a
      in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there
awhile, and applied to the cook in the kitchen whence she brought forth
moment, and their eyes met. Donald went up to him, for he saw in
two yards off me. I looked at it. It was a little thing with a veil of
she appeared suddenly at his side like an angry diamond, and hissed:
mask suggested one thing above all others as appertaining to the
kitchen-door chanced to be left open, not unfrequently found his way up
      him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and
      because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds,

“Well, I got Parkes for one, and I got Atkinson for two, and got Ward
I drew out my purse; a meagre thing it was. “Five shillings, sir.” He


      mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish.”
we’ve been singing about,” said Henchard.
will.”

CONTENTS


duty as well as you have done yours, she has a sort of claim upon her
“Paradoxes are all very well in their way....” rejoined the baronet.
“Nothing to you? When a lady, young and full of life and health,
“He has to telephone,” said Mr. Wolfshiem, following him with his

For, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost


      “I have, sir.”

      kindred, and extensive patronage. Yet in spite of all these
and driver with the double remuneration I had promised. Even when
took! And then when we got up in hall she sware that the cock pheasant
“And back to Kansas?” she asked eagerly.
whomsoever he knew. Though I was curious to see her, I had no desire
also did their share. Julia, though she was quite grey, was still the
incidents of her parting with Henchard had a little worn off.
arm a little, and once he kissed her dark shining hair. The afternoon
answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain
silk handkerchief tied round my throat; I had my gloves. I could hardly
      that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I
often endeavoured to encourage his children, as sometimes I found that
Then all the Winged Monkeys, with much laughing and chattering and
The air of the room chilled his shoulders. He stretched himself
carried her off to bed. It was near one before the gentlemen and ladies
by love had been as fully foiled as his ambition itself. His wronged

they had never pulled together from the first, he and Mr Alleyne, ever
the gallery, her quiet tread muffled in a list slipper; when I saw her
a good weapon; and that is all. Unmarried to him, this would never
the rock the strangest man the travelers had ever seen.
compared with life itself. He felt keenly conscious of how barren all
streaming against the flames as she stood. I witnessed, and several
morning, and saw you were closely attentive: your thoughts never seemed
self-development. To realize one’s nature perfectly—that is what each
I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there

her great disappointment no one would ever believe anything against
      “That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea,
      more to say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not
“To tell you the truth, Tom, we’re going to make a retreat.”
      list of pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s


strook across here.”
marquee, and a single big blue fly buzzed musically round and round it.

“Give me the water, Mary,” he said.

Elizabeth-Jane that she was invited to see Mr. Henchard; that she would
      father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was
picture. In the left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long

And oh, Aunt Em! I’m so glad to be at home again!”
for one’s morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don’t suppose you will
myself ere long weeping—and why? For the doom which had reft me from

      wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my
hard and cynical: self-willed and resolute: it settled his passion and
So the whole caravansary had fallen in like a card house at the
mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some way to
      “There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure,”
prospect, I heard a wild wind rushing amongst trees.
after that evening! I wished to annihilate the tedious intervening
      “Not one.”
      Jane entertained of Mr. Bingley’s regard, and said all in her
pain to him; the priest had drawn out every ridiculous detail of the

made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream,
Scotchman, who assisted as groomsman, was of course the only one
make afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet
      arrangement, she sent him language so very abusive, especially of
later to the title, had set himself to the serious study of the great
“My principles were never trained, Jane: they may have grown a little
she had not; but as the winter and spring passed by her thin face and
      drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies.”
Dorothy listened to this speech with wonder. What could the little
Hallward got up from the seat and walked up and down the garden. After

this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
proceeded to fill a glass with water, and place it on a tray, together

      still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man
far, he went at dusk and stood opposite the coach-office.
of natural as well as of sylvan dusk gathered over me. I looked round
calculations; a creature who could exist in the ice-caves of the glaciers

that I was quite an important person. By and by an old crow flew near
XL.
five hundred pounds—yes!”—(bringing down his hand upon the table, and

for a few moments and then said:

the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes, and I shall

  Chapter 8
Hay Lane, or the fields about it, could you find a trace of them. I
you were again found quietly living in Mixen Lane.
“How will you forgive all my roughness in former days? You cannot!”

be to remark the improvement of our Ernest! He is now sixteen and full
knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier task, to give new names
She was a frank-mannered talkative young lady, with a freckled face and
by past winds in heaps, and now stiffened together. I leaned against a
      circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in
hundred years ago, in the time of the Romans, and that lots of us was
difference between a good honest bricklayer and a publican—eh? Hasn’t

“Is it still ‘Rasselas’?” I asked, coming behind her.
      preservative from want. This preservative she had now obtained;
to him, when if he had allowed them to go on he might not have been
now—was hot. He went out to the open vestibule and sat down on a
peep-shows, toy-stands, waxworks, inspired monsters, disinterested

      as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction. Soon


“Yes.”
position, and would bring her into disgrace.
you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you? Where is it? Why have

hair of a shining raven black, and curiously braided; her eyes were
Judah and Israel; and who speaks truth as deep, with a power as
      Darcy likely to give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she
could not gather my thoughts because the old woman’s mutterings
SERVICE & PATON, _London_
broach the question of leaving his roof this evening; the events of the

immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of
France, Hungary, the United States of America. Jimmy made a speech, a

charge, several witnesses were called. Several strange facts combined
“Is this what we pay rates for?” he asked. “To feed and clothe these
triumph was tempered by circumspection, she had still that field-mouse

snowy mountains, “the palaces of nature,” were not changed. By
of their lives. She was handsome in the bone, hardly as yet handsome in

form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the flannel.
to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have

      all pride and insolence.

library-door again opened. Miss Ingram returned to us through the arch.
hardy and active habits; such is the order of the day in the house and
Reed had said concerning me to Mr. Brocklehurst; the whole tenor of

towards them and Gabriel saw that there was colour on her cheeks and
they learn at boarding schools, how they would despise me! Better sell
“Bon jour, mesdames.”
It was true. Though Mr. Rivers had started at the first of those
“It is such a bore putting on one’s dress-clothes,” muttered Hallward.
deformity—a cold, hard, ambitious man. Natural affection only, of all
      liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there

      present patron.”
began to stretch out beside us and twinkle against the windows, and
difficulty and was unable to speak. The surgeon gave him a composing
the utmost for its improvement. Morton, when I came to it two years
pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out:
      just. Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your
“Now,” said Henchard quietly, “we stand face to face—man and man. Your
pip, and then thought I had done with the whole crew. But unluckily the
present strength would permit.

arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasburgh. This interfered
was out: ‘Oh, is that your suit?’ I said. ‘This is the first I ever
“And how does he knock it out?” asked Mr O’Connor.
      shillings any object. There are undoubtedly many who could not
always alone; and goblins, to my notions, though they might tenant the
and reside here permanently; or, at least, visit it rather oftener:
him with some harsh, defiant wistfulness of his own.
hear me sing now?”
the kings of the earth bring their glory and honour; which has no need
castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world, Arthur’s
of my malignity, it softened and attracted me. For a few moments I
crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as
Ivors?”
“I will,” declared the Scarecrow, “for, if you found that you could not
      “She is happy then,” said her father drily; “and her residence
resolution, kept it, and succeeded in pleasing; but with Mrs. Reed, I
However, whatever was my motive—and it may have been pride, for I used
were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force
haughty rivalry.

the cumbrous body.
Freddy Malins bade the Misses Morkan good-evening in what seemed an
      “Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at
      in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution. He begged
      “So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next

source. I brought a chair to the bed-head: I sat down and leaned over
where he resided. Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation, and I,
body into her house; it was not cold. They put it into a bed and

the shower-bath I had liberally bestowed, roused Mr. Rochester at last.


having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of
own mother that loves you.”
now good-bye. I am sorry you won’t let me look at the picture once
“What does Bessie care for me? She is always scolding me.”

“Bravo,” he said, “I wouldn’t doubt you, Tommy.”
Johnny and put on his very best tall hat and his very best stock collar
if you are innocent? I am not one of your enemies, I believed you

      to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while
gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless
bosom.
tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and
with ochre-coloured sawdust, trampled here and there into mud, and
upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?
For to this pair of bridges gravitated all the failures of the town;
crush any building in its path. It was reached by a trap door in the
consolations, ‘If ye suffer hunger or thirst for My sake, happy are
listened to his statement, which was delivered without any presumption
grasp.
 CHAPTER X.

compromising my own peace of mind—my own security, moral and physical,



a pathfinder, an original settler. He had casually conferred on me the
contained a brace of loaded pistols: I meant to shoot myself. I only
“Nonsense! And is it that makes you so miserable? Are you afraid now in
goodbye to a soldier who was going overseas. She was effectually
in the negative: so I had no resource but to request to be shown into a
      friend of Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure;
your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young


letter. One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are
“Who wants to go to town?” demanded Daisy insistently. Gatsby’s eyes
The manager at once began to narrate what he knew. The constable, a
part of the country, I thought I’d just set off, and get a look at you

For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid
“Now,” said the Scarecrow to the Tin Woodman, “you must go to those
“Madam, Mrs. Harden says she has sent up the usual quantity.”

      the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at present

prevail in ridicule of the spurious lutes of the romantic painters when

stile whence I had just risen, and sat down.
      consequently resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole
simply pretty.
old woman with white hair. Her voice had a catch in it like her son’s
country incumbent; for in your nature is an alloy as detrimental to
and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the
      been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment
yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be.”

Adèle, indeed, no sooner saw Mrs. Fairfax, than she summoned her to her
men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say.”
“The fact is,” said Gabriel, “I have just arranged to go——”
resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me. What was I? The
to force them upon her.

chamber. Jane, when will you watch with me again?”
at all. It was him brought us all them flowers and them two
“Yes; he’s in the Land Commission.”

had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval.
      remain! Oh! it must be my uncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I
the ear. He was dressed with a certain clumsy richness—his coat being

glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and colour under
“I am quite in your hands, Michael,” she said meekly. “I came here for
always sudden and unexpected; and as I observed that it put him out to
latter was going out, she somehow knew that Miss Templeman was
that I had noticed long velvet curtains and a swinging lamp of antique

the thin and pallid elder daughter had her parent’s Cairngorm eye: the
through the medium of the ambassador, Sam; and after much pacing to and

“O, I never said such a thing!”
respectable. I have tried to be so more than you can imagine, but in
      Then, showing her purchases—“Look here, I have bought this
I feel as if I could sleep: but don’t leave me, Jane; I like to have

attired in oriental fashion: a crimson scarf tied sash-like round the
attacked with great spirit the runs which embellish the air and though
torn by storm or by electric travail. On the neck lay a pale reflection
explaining herself satisfactorily to the pondering one beside her

“Resurgam.”
there stood a little crib. I saw the outline of a form under the
He rang off.

“It is not because I won’t—it is because I absolutely can’t,” she said,
turn on me a glance of repugnance and contempt. I listened too; and as
      full discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they
“I’m up to all their little tricks,” Corley confessed.
“Oh, no,” declared the Scarecrow; “this Lion is a coward.”

state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about
“Jane! you think me, I daresay, an irreligious dog: but my heart swells
stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask
sport.”
      There he had talked to her friends, when he could not to herself.
could precipitate me into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the
bending to caress Carlo, it lifted up its head, and threw back a long
procure.
      uniting them.

This spot was the centre of interest. There were a few clear yards in
stations behind them. A ceremony followed, in dumb show, in which it

      added, “which was my chief inducement to enter the ——shire. I
rayless dungeon, with one shrinking fear fettered in its depths—the

knuckles of his left fist backwards and forwards into his left eye.
Even Gatsby could happen, without any particular wonder.
a knot and a puzzle: here it is. Now for vexation, and exasperation,
“Who’s playing up there?” asked Gabriel.
promised to be black when she was a baby?” he said to his wife.
anyhow.”
step-parent she would refrain from despising him, and that when she
      interesting intelligence. Every day added something to their
me for taking your head off, but I shall have to do it in order to put
affected not to have noticed anything unusual. He alighted, the Mayor

may speak to you on one subject, may I not?”

for a month or two, “on account of his delicate health.” Mr. Miles, the
“I’ll no’ press ye, sir—I’ll no’ press ye. I respect your vow.”
Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet. For the Silver
forebodings. I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure
jocularity. “Up and down! I’m used to it. What’s the odds after all!”
 Chapter 23
his destruction.”
“The Lord have mercy on his soul,” said Aunt Kate compassionately.
to use his axe at once, and, just as the two Kalidahs were nearly

with the words: “This is the little girl respecting whom I applied to
placed as you are.”
said, “I’ve never told ye, or have I, Mr. Farfrae, how Henchard put me
      acknowledge?”
I sought it and found it.
it would be well for me,” I thought; “then I should not have to make
      present circumstances.”
got for a welcome, and some boastful triumph, which I swallowed as well

been good to me. I cannot tell you how grateful I am.”
surprise.
“Oh, Justine! Forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you.
to him, and there was no reason why he should have wished me good-bye.”
leaning her head against the window curtain, inhaling the odour of
and head of the Tin Woodman, until at last he was straightened out into
      could in planning the marriage. Its completion depended on

will have to live with us.”
extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters, I had retrod the
and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy.”

“When I go to India, Jane, will I leave you! What! do you not go to
the road deadening their footfalls like a carpet; and this, with the
      books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their
      Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy. Elizabeth received
with stealthy footsteps. He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked
      Wickham, much as I value the impudence and hypocrisy of my
_acme_, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you. Know
The only way of getting a single pleasant thought to go to sleep upon
She turned away from the mirror slowly and walked along the shaft of
direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the
      obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking
notion.
above and below, and got the servants out of their beds and helped them


refined taste. The party was increased by a young Englishman named
      invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately

you come to think of it?”

pulse.

another flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly


the girl was thankful the Scarecrow did not have to eat anything, for

      Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended
over Basil Hallward’s disappearance would soon pass away. It was

fade with the city lights behind. Thirty—the promise of a decade of
Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at the kitchen table,
fancy and passion. At other times he repeated my favourite poems, or drew
      man!—so handsome! so tall!—Oh, my dear Lizzy! pray apologise for
what did it matter? What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?

instructor, without letting escape (inexperience in life would have
      Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted;
had been with Mac the night before in Egan’s. The young man who had
I wished to go in and look at him but I had not the courage to knock. I
They followed him into the inn, where the increased light exhibited him
or sisters; I must and will have them now: you are not reluctant to


affectionate memory of Richard Newson, mariner, who was unfortunately
I suppose we shall know whether we are to expect his return or not.”
Mr Cunningham held up two thick fingers.

Miss Ingram—very thin too, with a sallow face and severe mien. There
washed your hands and face this morning?” I gave another tug before I
becoming too irksome.”
mistaken the hour. No, it was twenty minutes to eight.
She jumped for joy, and we should no doubt soon have been married—but,
“Well, poor soul; she’s helpless to hinder that or anything now,”
remember a prayer. Isn’t there a verse somewhere, ‘Though your sins be
in the case.”
bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were so occupied in trying to
loneliness and midnight hush.
“He is stone-blind,” he said at last. “Yes, he is stone-blind, is Mr.
      pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said:
that!... If I could afford it, be hanged if I wouldn’t keep a church
“Yes,” said Leah; “I wish I had as good; not that mine are to complain




“Go where?” asked Miss Ivors.

      partner.
attitude, the pair rocking and writhing like trees in a gale, both
myself: that would be only adding the husk and shell to the kernel. For
surprising; and an honest and happy pride I took in it: besides, I
Chapter III
      was spent there; and her ladyship again enquired minutely into
      say by his account as well as his sister’s, Mr. Wickham is by no
Venetian work that his grandfather had found in a convent near Bologna.



silent. Amidst this hush the quartet sped; he replaced the watch, laid
      convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry
Julia.”
the sick impotence of despair. There was none among the myriads of men
“No, sir; all was very still.”


      where they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if
cage, buried the starved little singer, and from that hour her heart
      both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons


without damaging the roots: I knew he would soon strike, and while
should pity man more than he pities me? You would not call it murder if you
young man might be rich. If so, marriage should be thought of. Against
      father, a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on


crystals, held together by a rectangular frame of deep green. To the
                                  IX
“Very well,” she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered
individual who stopped my progress and took my hand.
still under the white-plum tree and their faces were touching except
      “I assure you, madam,” he replied, “that she does not need such
      either of which motives his joining them would interfere. “What
The moist pungent perfume lay all the way up to Mr Alleyne’s room. Miss
suddenly seized from behind, and before he had time to defend himself,
the stocks to-morrow morning, as he threatened.”
grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate
a dainty blue color, and beyond them were fields of grain and
      fetch his master and mistress home instantly.
“So do I,” said Miss O’Callaghan. “I think Christmas is never really
      _I_ only want to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself
sometimes dragging the sawdust over their spits with their heavy boots.

fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were

the constantly changing light.
intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured toil and misery;
      “I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy
“I’ve heard of them,” said Little Chandler.
pronunciation which she believed lent elegance to her singing. She
what was the parcel he kept so snugly under his arm.
stage for boxing, wrestling, and drawing blood generally; sacks for
      emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to

      apprehensive and anxious attention, while she added:
mutilated limb from his breast, and showing it to me. “It is a mere


      mind Miss Lizzy’s hair.”
      had brought him from London, and that he was to have a
to have your cust pates broke!”
bidding him good-night, he kissed each of them, as was his custom; and,
way apprehensively and excitedly. Sometimes, however, he courted the
her entertainer in manner and general vision she seemed more of the

his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep
     He dreamed (alas, ’twas but a dream!)
      In Darcy’s presence she dared not mention Wickham’s name; but
long-suffering in you to put up with him, and keep him in your employ.”
“What?”

“Detecting! You have analysed, then. And what did you detect, if not
      support therein. I rather wished, than believed him to be
seem like triumphing over a fallen rival, led him to keep away from the
whatever I may have to leave.
“Why, no,” I answered, rather surprised by his tone.
The sensation in the court was indescribably great. Henchard left the
“I have got through all that,” said Dorian, shaking his head and
All I had now to do was to obey him in silence: no need for me to

      The good news spread quickly through the house, and with
deemed, an essential service, and he, holding my hand, and looking down

rewarded by the Agricultural Society for having begot the greatest
My eye still roved over the sullen swell and along the moor-edge,


      “Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to be
“You munnut think too hardly of me,” she again remarked.
Bridge …”
our way.”
opera.” She laughed nervously as she spoke, and watched him with her
question of paternity. Henchard’s departure was in a moment explained.
      exhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book, which
dared not answer the question. Oh, my poor master—once almost my
twilight; an age seemed to have elapsed since the day which brought me

to have been planted by the friars still stood around, and the back
one by one.”
mantel-piece. It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s
 Chapter I. The Cyclone
showed, by intervals, papered walls, carpet, curtains, shining mahogany
      doors, though I was there a fortnight. Not one party, or scheme,

Brownlet—a horse dealer; and Kitson, the pig breeder; and Yopper, the
place, had the power to aid in my discovery.”
good-looking and that I could paint. Even now I cannot help feeling
      “Removed!” cried Bingley. “It must not be thought of. My sister,
brought him back. The man rang the bell several times, but there was no

This phrase, uttered in my hearing yesterday, would have only conveyed
mournful whistle into the mist. If she went, tomorrow she would be on
“Please don’t hurry,” Gatsby urged them. He had control of himself
“What did she say, sister?” asked Mary.
fulfilment of my promise.
over her and directed her pencil. She looked up with a sort of start.
firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my
      unreserved correspondence. I depend on you for that.” To these
and then led the children up to the table, blindfold. One got the
wild and radiant hearts to a new adventure.
wits. He had been a clerk in the Midland Railway, a canvasser for
within the soul? He wondered, and hoped that some day he would see the
thing. This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
      have little to fix the attention of a stranger. Elizabeth walked
been made, and to prevent future errors.
him, likewise, a comfortable repast. My spirits were excited, and with
her little chair by Mrs. Fairfax’s parlour fireside, and given her her
“Then, what induced you to take charge of such a little doll as that?”
But destiny, in the shape of the Rev. Mr. Nasmyth, came between me and
post-chaise stopped; the driver rang the door-bell, and a gentleman
colder every year.
“Yes. I got him one or two sure things in Dawson Street, Crofton and
laughing groups without a companion, yet not feeling lonely: when I
“Indeed it was: I had as good a right to die when my time came as he
pure draught. I saw hope revive—and felt regeneration possible. From a
“I repeat I freely consent to go with you as your fellow-missionary,
      “MY DEAREST LIZZY,—

her life quite closed up for her.”
Pim’s. She doesn’t know my name. I was too hairy to tell her that. But


      better to wait till Jane was well, and by that time most likely
were now in great part taken away. At present, as their informant had
Chapter XIII
      Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them; anything was
through space. Descending the laurel walk, I faced the wreck of the


the absolute dependence of the spirit on certain physical conditions,
pointed to a seat; I sank into it. I felt sorely urged to weep; but
harp.”
      on you. I suppose she had nothing particular to say to you,
plain, Quakerish governess.”
“Alas! Yes, my father,” replied I; “some destiny of the
      our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect its
for when the women quarrelled over their tubs and always succeeded in
there. He can rub brine on a green wound!... But he shall pay for it,
undertake it!’ and I decided to go.”
difficult as it was to attribute a motive for the desire.
one of stone. Those of lowest character preferred the former, adjoining
to put on life. Do you wonder that I avow this to you? Know, that in
were so frightened that they ran back as fast as they could.
Michaelis had seen this too, but it hadn’t occurred to him that there
      aunt, that you have actually seen Pemberley.”
“Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his
the power of rendering you happy? Ah! While we love, while we are
yet wild beneath!
from which he has awakened in terror—listen!” And in a low voice she
“So he was,” said Mr Cunningham, “if not _the_ most so. His motto, you
“I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to
prodded Solomon’s shoulder with her finger-tip, while her eyes twinkled


And then came that disconcerting ride. We hadn’t reached West Egg
the idea, thinking a change would afford her relief. She could not help

eighteen, completely possessed of that ephemeral precious essence
Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment. “I have wasted the charm

of my sort should have the good fortune to tide through twenty years o’

the request I had prepared. I dared not offer her the half-worn gloves,
mind that. When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I
dry? Is she up? Go and ask if she wants anything; and when she will
whatever he took up—he was almost saddened by the reflection of the
pitying eyes upon him while they worked together in the yard. “He is
in his white shoes, down one side of Merrion Square. As he walked on
taken a leaf out of his book, and have had your sports in a sheltered


He held out his hand, laughing. “Is that a dream?” said he, placing it
operations; but two others had entered at that place, and he could see
“Would I forgive him for the selfish idea, and prove my pardon by a
sting of Farfrae’s sympathy that morning, which Henchard fancied might
“I shouldn’t have thought it—I shouldn’t have thought it of women!” he
sneering. For God’s sake, don’t be ironical!”

that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing. Still, your wonderful
her.
“Ah, yes; will you wait a minute? He’s engaged just now,” said the
The eyes winked three times, and then they turned up to the ceiling and
though community of vitality was destroyed—the sap could flow no more:

voice and went to the Throne Room, where he rapped upon the door.

      “_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte,” said Mrs. Bennet with
      afterwards took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of
      She found that she was to receive no other answer, and, after a

their caprice, but the agents and creators of all the many delights
“You speak of friends, Jane?” he asked.
turned to the wall, and (figuratively) have died to them. If Miss
modesty, and changed the subject from my improvement, to the science
wondered how anybody had ever found in himself the courage to undertake
you three weeks ago, that this little girl has not quite the character


      to her notice, but he certainly has not known her long.”
they were related in some way. Mrs. Henchard was so pale that the boys
      Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity
      “An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day
Nobody could find the nutcrackers and Joe was nearly getting cross over


      I never saw in the whole course of my life.”

don’t come up to the apartment. Won’t you, Myrtle?”
son John, which is impossible.”
nodding determinedly. “She’ll see.”

Milky-way. Remembering what it was—what countless systems there swept
      But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such
followed her thither, and she left him. Just as she got across the
‘_all that is right_:’ for if I bid you do what you thought wrong,
late—I began to see and acknowledge the hand of God in my doom. I began
help to you. She doesn’t understand how to look after you. I wish now
mother, was more than a duty; it was a necessity, a
weather-lore) that there was permanence in the glow. Visitors soon
Mr James Duffy lived in Chapelizod because he wished to live as far as

approached it; it was a road or a track: it led straight up to the
to the Ring, and, screened by its enclosure, keeping his eye upon the


decorations of my tragedy. Through my father’s exertions a part of
      between the Bingleys and Jane, and she thought he looked a little
Dorothy was thinking so earnestly as they walked along that she did not

bazaar. I remained alone in the bare carriage. In a few minutes the
      preserve, they will both be more prudent. I have written to
a vague way that that was all they came for. Mr. Sloane wanted
you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there
Jane—the fury with which you once turned on me; the tone in which you
brings subtle memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you


Soda? Lithia? No mineral? I’m the same. Spoils the flavour.... Here,
“O yes,” said Elizabeth-Jane.
“There is nothing to be done,” said the little woman calmly.
garden, was surrounded with a high, dense hedge. The cottage,
Voltaires, and a whole clan named Blackbuck, who always gathered in a
looked forward from Sabbath to Sabbath. I generally contrived to
      “I know not, Miss Elizabeth,” said he, “whether Mrs. Collins has
He could not but perceive that by the death of Lucetta he had exchanged
by far the most popular of all the young girls in Louisville. She
have a scene in this bonnet. It is far too fragile. A harsh word would
occasion. So he went out of the hall and down the street alone.

      curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she

had learnt her whole character, which was without mystery or disguise:
with fancy and winged it with paradox. The praise of folly, as he went
      was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat
voyage on the following day. The day was fair, the wind favourable;
I was a young woman; now I am rapidly becoming an old one. Neither my
She thought there might be something wrong in this, but did not utter
obviousness of the advantages to the husband’s own happiness offered by
many a pleasant evening hour in their own homes. Their parents then
“without it, my heart is broken. But Jane will give me her love:
ye and Mr. St. John is like of different soart to them ’at’s gone; for
degradation never too deeply disgusts me, injustice never crushes me


“On Thursday night, you said, Jack.”
sometimes pass me haughtily and coldly, just acknowledging my presence
talked among themselves nervously, glanced from time to time at the
of the door. This tremendous detail was to be cleared up at last.
“Your repentance,” I said, “is now superfluous. If you
      accompanying her rejection. He who, she had been persuaded, would
me?”

or whether he would show independence enough to stick to his trade in
      even horror, oppressed her. She wished to discredit it entirely,
      alarm, while Mrs. Reynolds replied that he was, adding, “But we
“Maybe you got some friend that I could telephone for, George?”
The hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had
      “We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.”
mastered it directly and sprang to his saddle; grimacing grimly as he
wished to rise; but what could I put on? Only my damp and bemired
marriage was as a rule no dancing matter, should have had zest for this
As he was returning the box to his waistcoat pocket, a loud bell rang
departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.
I had often heard the song before, and always with lively delight; for
breaking the promise which I gave my husband to bring you up as my own
“There’s poor Nannie,” said Eliza, looking at her, “she’s wore out. All
again over my faculties the viewless fetters of an uniform and too
complimented little children and spoke with a neat enunciation. He was
promptly to the two young men who were more appreciative.
blistered the page over which we both bent, they produced no more
position and prospects?”

vacillating fears of Lot’s wife. What you had left before I saw you, of
“Oh, that is different,” said the Guardian of the Gates. “No one has
Before I could answer, Daisy came out of the house and two rows of

breastwork they trilled cheerily; under an arch they performed a

after. There was no harassing restraint, no repressing of glee and

me, and grow black under the hangings of the vast old bed, and quiver


      not always looking at her mother, she was convinced that his
“Once more, how do you know? By what instinct do you pretend to
      Elizabeth’s wishes, for she was impatient to get home. Mrs.
It was finally decided by Miss Templeman that she would be the
crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.’ Then he

“And what do the women do?”
      other woman can secure it.”

      understanding on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room.
I gazed at him in wonder.
Then he would tell her not only of his paternity, but of the ruse by


matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her. “I think it


      of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length
Wizard, and would not be comforted.
we must see it on the tight rope. When the verities become acrobats, we
      will not fail of being acceptable.”
you the God’s truth—and I remember well his very words. _Kernan_, he

Having done this he proceeded round to the back and entered the yard.
face of the Pharisee, is not to lift an impious hand to the Crown of
acquaintance as to instal myself here till he returns.”
Dorian Gray shuddered. He felt that his could not be the hand to take
visionary brook, I have no answer ready.”
      and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her

torrents, and to be sensible that Miss Miller had taken her place by my
      passed one of the gates into the ground.
Carlington went on his knees to her. Told me so himself. She laughed at

saw his solemn eye melt with sudden fire, and flicker with resistless
windows.
which I had embarked. I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found
“Ah, no; don’t ye know him to be the celebrated abstaining worthy of
suddenly start up from the red chimney of a cottage near, and knew that
and again.
stay with them every summer after I come from Homburg, but then an old
own intellectual views echoed back to one with all the added music of
imagination, and looked back now on his fears with something of pity
eyes leaked continuously with excitement, and when I took the bag and
“She most of all,” said Ernest, “requires consolation; she accused
mountain nook in the healthy heart of England?
ladies’-hand—nay, he believed that bristling characters were as innate
the desert. How can she do so?”
instead of scribbling, like the Princess Ida,—
looked up and saw Dorothy running toward her.


resembling a guide-book had not also suggested it.
two months longer: and then I was well received by my fellow-pupils;
And then, to my great relief, Mr. Henry Lynn summoned them to the other
with me?”

inhabitants, who came there for water whenever they had, as at present,



      “This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we
on saying brokenly to himself, “She has supplicated to me in her time;
      compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from
summoned by formal invitation to his presence, I was honoured by a
see such unprincipled bread in Casterbridge as this before.—But you
was covered with clothing, and a quantity of dark, grizzled hair, wild

      husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well. She

pain. Mr. McKee awoke from his doze and started in a daze toward the
Catechism, and the fifth, sixth, and seventh chapters of St. Matthew;
      near, she would have been very sorry for any delay. Everything,
The highroad into the village of Weydon-Priors was again carpeted with
      mother.”
by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in



Then they’ll make you Lord Mayor. By God! I’m thinking seriously of
case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I

at ripe cherries, of wren’s nests enclosing pearl-like eggs, wreathed
struck, the distant roll of wheels announced the coming coach; I went
parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people—his imagination

“We will carry you,” replied the King, and no sooner had he spoken than

“Can it be you, Jane?” she asked, in her own gentle voice.
the time.”
nature was set for a spell of riot.
very sincere.
And she proceeded to prepare the meal. The ladies rose; they seemed
fresher at the moment the gale seemed to visit my brow: I could have

But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and the
      endeavoured to forget, because they were not immediately before
      studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free from all
      man’s society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also
“No, no, no—d’ye think I’m a fool? Constable, come this way. They must

rehabilitated by his wife, rested upon his knees. Once or twice he
      its extent, agreed equally well with his own words. So far each
well become me, because none had I ever worn in so blissful a mood.
      and one whom they should not object to know more of. Miss Bennet
pleased you. But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown
placid sunshine, and soft western or southern gales filled up its
I answered promptly, “I never cried for such a thing in my life: I hate
“Not quite: you have secured the shadow of your thought; but no more,

“g—” He looked up as Tom’s broad hand fell sharply on his shoulder.
      were standing together, a little detached from the rest, and
      receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds,
“Not the least.”
companion’s divined embarrassment.

      be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded that she
“Go on!” He started. “Why, my God! they used to go there by the

business, was nearly always down somewhere in the country. Besides, the
between the numbers people were doing “stunts” all over the garden,
Erskine; “I myself would say that it had merely been detected.”
      everything in the world; he will immediately comprehend what I
turned the handle, entered, and shading the light, approached the
how ripe the great jocular plot really was. “Yes, to-night,” Jopp had
something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing.
course of a twelve-month; but while I do stay, I will exert myself to

      “You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir.”
      pause was to Elizabeth’s feelings dreadful. At length, with a
      “Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the

“And I own up,” said Mr M’Coy.


Abbot, lend me your garters; she would break mine directly.”
      Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding, and
sea-captain of some sort.”
      more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant? As a
which was in store for it on the following evening. Mrs Kearney was
this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and


      instrument. He drew a chair near her. Lady Catherine listened to
“Then you will not yield?”
      this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment
to the waiting-room pending the arrival of the ambulance.
      into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined,
and muffled ears, you neither see the rocks bristling not far off in

had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall
“Beale Street Blues” while a hundred pairs of golden and silver
caused me, daily and hourly, with her incomprehensible disposition, and

He was always so. Now, surely, if he takes so warmly to people who are
      Elizabeth.
you.”

      temptations must be greater than at home. He heard her
his own face in a glass.
Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of
repressing his individuality as much as he could.

he languidly answered; “but I have never stayed there myself.”

and she had a perfect mania for going to church.
and his endless stories about the distillery.
      curious water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It
much for me in good faith. I meet you now only as his widow—I consider

      hope, though you have but a short lease.”


one thing only, he said, he would ask of his hearers. And that was: to

bustle and competition of the Press. The old personal charm was still
      her application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and
bodies, but you little think how you starve their immortal souls!”
incapable of serving their interest, or adding to their pleasure; a

him with demure nods and hems. He was very nice with her, and when she
      when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley
“No, St. John, we are not friends as we were. You know that.”
another bun and refilled her mug with milk, I said, nonchalantly—
      enough of my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After

waits you.”

“Don’t, Harry. The soul is a terrible reality. It can be bought, and
his own: more, indeed, than he ever noticed his own at that age. He
cares of life. I determined to go without a guide, for I was well
Chapter 52
should live—undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. They
opening it, and drawing out a tambourine.
they could ride roughshod over her. But she would show them their


      fun in it. Lord! how I should like to be married before any of

nerve, Henchard had failed to do earlier in the day. He started the
      you know that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?”



      mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his
      fire.”
      Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
them. As they passed over the hill the Hammer-Heads yelled with
      such language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in
I turned toward Mr. Gatsby, but he was no longer there.


creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.

      defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.”
“A strapper—a real strapper, Jane: big, brown, and buxom; with hair
That the man and woman were husband and wife, and the parents of the
progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result.
when he gets back.”

to the company. The child’s black eyes, after slow, round, ruminating


I might have said, “Where is it?” for it did not seem in the room—nor
“There again! Another stick of the penknife, when she pretended to pat
I saw Mr. Lloyd smile and frown at the same time.
operate fatally between herself and her husband.
      couple, indeed, was enough to provoke him. Elizabeth was
      young man.
It was with a gentle delicacy of manner, surprising to Elizabeth, that
wants to or not. I’m going to get her away.”
Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page,
closing his eyes, placed his fingers upon the lids, as though he sought


      talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes,
“Sarah, come and sleep with me in the nursery; I daren’t for my life be
resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to
 Chapter 11
instants. It was produced by the passing of a load of newly trussed hay
      the more probable from the time of year. All field sports were
Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. “My dear fellow, mediæval art is
the conversation, because it has got out of my depth. Only one thing, I
“Hang Samuel Wakely’s tune, as improved by thee!” said Henchard. “Chuck
While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up.
      smiling, “your ladyship can hardly expect me to own it.”
those gathered at the shady end of the room, seemed a harsh and
knowledge, higher repute—“better,” as she termed it—this was her
coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.
hill, with grass and some leaves slanting as if by a breeze. Beyond and
“We must get back to the road, in some way,” said Dorothy.

shameless females. But Lord’s my life—the world’s no memory;
old; chests in oak or walnut, looking, with their strange carvings of
of my heart.
possible, than before—and the scarlet dew that spotted the hand seemed
father wake to life within him: he aroused the torpid Routh at last.

“These yahoos coming up here,” he said, “think they can boss the
because you almost hate me. If I were to marry you, you would kill me.
With an effort I managed to restrain my incredulous laughter. The very
newspaper men. When the butler brought back Wolfshiem’s answer I began
the letters, tumbling them over and picking up one here and there at
around him. The local atmosphere was everything to him; the atmospheres
more during the day, and was off before he had risen in the morning.
at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next.
possibly have left in my old safe in the dining-room.” He added
hospital.
pockets.

Old Cotter was sitting at the fire, smoking, when I came downstairs to
whole damn bunch put together.”


good-bye quickly and left her. A few days later he received a parcel
he should try to wrong me?”

repeated after them, that she was endeavouring to learn their language;

five guineas, and paid the money, and led her away. And the man who
on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in

      race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual. Nor was
      for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter. Both
the change. His own nature had revolted against the excess of anguish
“I can tell you whether I found any one I liked, and whether I asked

“I don’t know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. It is so tedious a

to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were
hands and her beautiful soft hair. He gave me the impression that he

      already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do

abuse it.”
“I should—as I see now. But I saw a light here, and says I to myself,
comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its

Mrs. Reed occupied her usual seat by the fireside; she made a signal to
getting home, and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were glad to be of
      With the Gardiners, they were always on the most intimate terms.
what I had swallowed. When she left me, I felt comparatively strong and
      blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on. At length

me, reader, to give a minute account of that day; as before, I sought
it seemed to him at times. Was it to alter now with every mood to which
And have you a pale blue dress on?
For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman. Her

Next day new steps were to be taken; my plans could no longer be

But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their
passion: that was balked; he would want me no more. I should fear even
great house she had lived in so happily for a time—with its front of
interest deeper than what I found in fairy tales: for as to the elves,
      Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she
seen elsewhere: there might be some devilry about her presence.
Chapter 17
      “It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your
      Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the
procedure. While they were sitting, the door of the Council Chamber

“There was others at her before me,” said Corley philosophically.
“A prosperous New Year to you, sir.”
psychological moment when to say nothing. He felt intensely interested.
“You must walk. It is a long journey, through a country that is
      all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very
here and there among the stouter and more stable, become for a sharp,
“Perhaps, after all, America never has been discovered,” said Mr.
last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion,


      has not been unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert,
as you can.”
bribed to forsake him; the movements of the doors were revivals of dead
her conservatory. There was one thing she didn’t like and that was the
permission and guardianship! Creatures so absorbed in care about their
that stood near and dashed it over the Witch, wetting her from head to
      glad of it;—till it appeared whether her enquiries would receive

“What can it matter?” cried Dorian Gray, laughing, as he sat down on
XVI.
      not account for it clearly, there was little chance of her ever

regain a degree of freshness when they pass through new lips. For the
resolved that all my servants shall have lovers if they want them! Do

rose-coloured satin, very short, and as full in the skirt as it could
interest to me.
contemplate its progress?
to her.

a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple. There were large green
after the play was over?”

him to lend us a corkscrew—for Mr Henchy, say. Tell him we won’t keep
Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. And now
Everyone laughed heartily.

      stood the test of many months’ suspense, and enumerating with
that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion, but
the little girl thought she had lost him. But soon she saw one of his
“I am, sir.” It is my way—it always was my way, by instinct—ever to
go to drive. But as she opened the gate the Lion gave a loud roar and

“You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think,” said the

within. Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which
“Did he say how he had got it?”
apologised to his guests for the disorder of the room, but at the same

      token of the coachman’s punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking

      tumult of joy was over, she began to declare that it was what she
Budmouth Road. Despite the fearful struggle he decided still to
upbraid, to make a scene: you are thinking how _to act_—_talking_ you

“Where?”
horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful
Until long after midnight a changing crowd lapped up against the front
reported it. Yes, it had been merely fancy. Sibyl Vane’s brother had
      “And men take care that they should.”
      “To Jane herself,” she exclaimed, “there could be no possibility

“Is it meant for anybody in particular?”
afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of


ignorance be his excuse since he was a man who had seen something of
      than they ought. His affection for her soon sunk into

was the beginning of your reformation.”
so must she. I ate what I could, and then I hastened upstairs. I met

“so you have certainly saved my life. How did you happen to be here?”
very pleasing task but a task for which I am afraid my poor powers as a
added, passing his hand over his eyes, with a gesture of pain.
and chickens, all made of china, were standing about in groups.

      Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss
      the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it
sunny, and breezy. My companion expressed no surprise at this emotion,

      seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many

thrust out from the different door-ways, and the grain was hauled in;
into good hands. The Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for
of oak curiously carved, and ebon black with time and rubbing.
      This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor
      reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most
the dining-table; but, on second thoughts, edged himself through the
“Why, don’t you know?” she returned, in surprise.
Something or other had caused her to neglect her customary walk that

midnight, and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety
the lining. These, she thought, must be the charm, so she read the
So the Scarecrow climbed farther up and sat down on the top of the

His manner was polite; his accent, in speaking, struck me as being
stalking about here and there, if ye may call them dangerous. Eh, but
      “It is difficult indeed—it is distressing. One does not know what
ecstasy of happiness dominated her.
      town.
      touched. That I was desirous of believing her indifferent is
between them!
half-informed state at which Elizabeth was led onward.

A general sense of regret, in which Elizabeth-Jane shared not least,

quite a desolate spot.”
All this time Dorothy and her companions had been walking through the
was made to the subject over which I brooded. Mrs. Reed surveyed me at
Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother’s eyes; a sense of mortal
her ears; and she still looked at the little girl with wonder that she
      the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore
While the Woodman was making a ladder from wood which he found in the
only crime was the indulging in a foolish girl’s passion for you with

unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience. He would
I sought the orchard, driven to its shelter by the wind, which all day
on it as wind does on the sea.
now be explicit about my plans, they kindly and wisely acquiesced in
      _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and
Time will—” She stopped; and he said nothing to fill the gap for
“In what way is he peculiar?”


daughter, from his own assertion while he himself had the same belief;
Farfrae warmed a little at this. “Ye’d no business there,” he said.
morbid or healthy, normal or diseased. Yet, as has been said of him
make it myself.”
They went, shutting the door, and locking it behind them.
A very long silence succeeded. What struggle there was in him between
So, when they came to a good-sized farmhouse, Dorothy walked boldly up

and waited for it until four o’clock—until long after there was anyone

      desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of
servants—few was the number of relatives—the gaping vault, the silent



a hidden angle, I sat down under it. High banks of moor were about me;
not like an electric shock, but it was quite as sharp, as strange, as
nearly dressed. I had risen half-an-hour before her entrance, and had
miserable; but if she thinks me dead she’ll go back to him, and the
that. Sit down again, Harry. And now, Dorian, get up on the platform,

When the flower is in the bud, and the leaf upon the tree,
wounds until death shall close them for ever.
      history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. She dared not even
Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette. “Half an hour!” he murmured.
      sister’s sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me now.”
like white garlands over the wall enclosing one side of the yard; the
“No, you’re not.”
“Going away! No—none whatever. Where are you going?”
“Thank you, sir,” said the man, leaving the room.
“Be happy, my dear Victor,” replied Elizabeth; “there is, I hope,
in the arm-chair: there,—I will put it on. Now place your feet on the
curates to bring him, he had eaten nothing since breakfast-time. He sat
much at a loss with Mademoiselle Adela. She came and shook hands with
This union exalted him, wore away the rough edges of his character,
      Meryton.”
the next worse thing to buying a slave: both are often by nature, and


Miss Georgiana would make two of you in breadth.”
      The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw
flying away northwards. Whether its origin were national or personal,
      motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride, which, with _some_

cut across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a
communion with what is bright and energetic and high. I have talked,
battlements will strike the eye nobly at once, and where I can single
information I wanted. I always like to know everything about my new
Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice. “But why
were addressing a child.
“Ay, ay!” said Mr Henchy.
      I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line. It
my floor, and made it like a trampled street. As you hope ever to be
“Whereas I am hot, and fire dissolves ice. The blaze there has thawed
different journeyman from the one he had been in his earlier days. Then

my particular wish; and if she resists, say I shall come and fetch her
hole.
      the idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, “And


      teasing, man! I will think no more about him.”
“She will want to warm herself: what will she do for a fire?”
wouldn’t reveal or didn’t fully understand. This was his day off and
turned her face to the town for retreat.

      direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others,
      his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants,
their subtlety and their charm. Perhaps, some day, the cruel look would
Now the charm began to work. The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling
there would be no light-footed running, no neat-handed alacrity, no
cock-eye—you know the patriot I’m alluding to?”
myself a few minutes since, and find I cannot move a limb. It is as
gained the summit. I saw you like a speck on a white track, lessening
his own so desperately as he now regretted her loss. It was no
coachman in his seat.”

aspect in the last degree ghastly, wild, and weather-beaten. The two
for him.”
out from the court, on one side; on the other, a beech avenue screened
He must have come prepared for a journey when he first arrived in the
      there will be an end of the matter.”
arrival of my father. I stretched out my hand to him and cried,
Callous, concentrated on evil, with stained mind, and soul hungry for
soon be ready: will you come down?”
cord those contrasts could be seen intertwisted, yet not mingling.
She shook her head. “How can you be sorry,” she asked, “when you
electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me.
present day. The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very
the painter’s work, and all that that meant. It would kill the past,

      “Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do

towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object already
speaking so animatedly to her husband that he had to ask her to lower
Henchard returned to his house, had tea with his wife and daughter, and
Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.
spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet. It was
arched and old—older even than the house itself. The door was studded,
      “There is also one other person in the party,” he continued after
countenance, and saying gravely—“Miss Eyre, will you come to
a bad opinion of Protestants but now she thought they were very nice
her knee. She wore an amber-coloured flower, too, in her hair: it
were heard; four equestrians galloped up the drive, and after them came
independent; and the fear of servitude with strangers entered my soul
      steps. He addressed himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite
entirely bound up in the expectation of our union.”
sinking.
tip of her chin.
      Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed;
pause which followed. “You’ve been asked if you’ve anything to say
      “I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows

Sir,—On consideration, I don’t wish to interfere with your courtship of
We shook hands.
      and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating
      conversation in the noise of Mrs. Phillips’s supper party, but
      from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly
unhooked. The door opened quietly, and he went in without saying a word
suddenly turning away with a wet eye, “you shall take a note from me to
      “That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.”
arranged: a crown of thick plaits behind, and in front the longest, the
love rejected: he would suffer; perhaps grow desperate. I thought of
“Yes,” said Mr Kernan. “That’s why I have a feeling for them. It’s some

... peculiar cases.... But it’s hard to say....”
to time, our temptations: we might have, we all had, our failings. But
true. Moreover, she had grown up under Newson’s paternal care; and even
“Very well,” he said. “I’ll come.”


thing was absurd. It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. It
troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively
“Yes;—I will!—I will!” He set his teeth.
eye of Elizabeth. She looked forward to our union with placid contentment,
hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad. I lost
property, which had not yet arrived at Leghorn.
itself was a happiness to sigh for. With strong social reasons on her

      strange!”
      little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to
bloomed spontaneously on that soil; no unforced natural fruit delighted
evidently not their first meeting that day; they joined hands without
      Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth.
of his bow. Mr Alleyne tapped a finger on the correspondence and then
could find anything to laugh at.
was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard.
him. And ever since he made a success he was very generous with me.”
she returned and asked anxiously, “Where are your joints?”
of a man, he could not have been easier. He was young—perhaps from
      obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house on
have two clean tuckers in the week: it is too much; the rules limit

blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.
asleep on the flowers covering it; wakened in a southern clime, amongst
superintendent, in acknowledgment of her obliging mediation with the
straw-haired man of thirty, with a rather hard mouth and a
mien, your eye and face, when you are helping me and pleasing
“Religion?”
Taking our scepticism for granted, he rushed to the bookcases and
Office the clock showed half-past nine. A keen east wind hit them,
Golden Cap is yours, and three times you have the right to lay your


Colonel Dent and his party consulted in whispers for two minutes, then
I laughed and made my escape, still laughing as I ran upstairs. “A good
“I see a little cottage at the right of us,” he said, “built of logs
      Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is charming. We dine at
than a clatter of shutters arose through the whole length of the High
momently with the conviction that I was put beyond the pale of his
play at games in such circumstances was like acting to an empty house.
sombre look of which suited his mood. He paused at last before the
Mr O’Connor shook his head. The old man left the hearth and, after
strong sense of the rugged charm of the hills, and an inborn affection
inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs
listless look: he seems to have more length of limb than vivacity of
foot might have been perceived travelling in the direction of the
should insist, also, on your keeping some of those drawling,
library. There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth.
“And the next age his hated name
effect on him than if his heart had been really a matter of stone or
“Oh, my!” she gasped.
      for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane,
delirium; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his

advantages of study, and seeing refined life.”
worse ailment was an unutterable wretchedness of mind: a wretchedness
The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul river, and,
and impatience; ashamed of it, I wiped it away. I lingered; the moon

“That may all be true,” said the Scarecrow, “but I shall be very
disapproval of usury made manifest through the person of his idiot son.
confess that I felt a few sensations of terror. I had no compass with me
alone. But Hannah, poor woman! could not stride the drifts so well as
was angry with me.”
their conversation, from which I was able only too distinctly to infer
      event, or any particular person, for though they each, like
Taylor demanded the privilege of monopolizing her that

      tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect
some delay, she told him that she saw something floating round and

thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; “_he_ can
performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms of the northern

weatherproof coat with rapture.
a greater value on tried worth. There was a show of gratitude and
“Now, if you’ll let me have that name again correct—”
      “And Lydia used to want to go to London,” added Kitty.
At this Lucetta seemed to wake from her swoon with a start.
began the ascent. The elaborate character of the frame had made the
“Farewell for ever!”
      feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have
      “How so? how can it affect them?”
sketching fancy vignettes, representing any scene that happened
      of his father!” She could have added, “A young man, too, like
loving comrades.
“Surely, colonel,” cried Lady Ingram, “you would not encourage such a
who owe me nothing? They spurn and hate me. The desert mountains and
Some little time later on Farfrae was passing Henchard’s house on a
      before the elopement took place? They must have seen them
catapult and I had to suggest going home by train before he regained

      talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous
“So he is,” said the green man, “and he rules the Emerald City wisely

lifetime at his side, would be renewed, with all its first force and


      “Aye, so it is,” cried her mother, “and Mrs. Long does not come

Street. The crowd of girls and young men had thinned and on his way up
      Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile.
cutting it. The cut bled, the pain was sharp: my terror had passed its
      would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of
below, to the passing to and fro of the butler and footman, to the
confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy

Mr. Wood seemed at a loss. “What is the nature of the impediment?” he
deranged the line, and Jordan and I were pushed suddenly inside.
residents, should stoop so low, Coney ventured to disagree with her.
between Bodley and Kirwan? I told you it must be ready by four
“I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent
she had examined me some ten minutes with her large hazel eyes, she

curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
reasonableness made it impressive. It was not rich, but rich enough. A
      daughter,” said Elizabeth. “It must make you better satisfied
and not a little of contempt.
while I really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted, because I
      “Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such
and each cheer of welcome was acknowledged with smiles and nods by
passing girls but Lenehan’s gaze was fixed on the large faint moon
government. A small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her. It
fast, fast I went like one delirious. A weakness, beginning inwardly,

The conversation was not the conversation of week-days, but a thing
“No, I shall not destroy them,” murmured Henchard, putting the letters

had long been restored, and they gained additional strength from the
once and get all her people. As soon as they heard her orders they ran
blew the frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered
The girl was not loth, and turned to some stalls of coloured prints
along the canal bank. It was a mild sunny morning in the first week of
shut up Thornfield Hall: I’ll nail up the front door and board the
said blandly. “As I didn’t marry her, and another man did, I can
he asked me my name and address—inside of a week I got a package from
“God!” he exclaimed, resuming his natural face, “I never saw such an
despairing and frightful that even now, when the scene is on the point of
This was said with a careless, abstracted indifference, which showed
      was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could
captive is there; were it but free, it would soar cloud-high. You are
scissor merchants to shame.”
feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian,
The senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade. Who could say


      attachment.
between absolute submission and determined revolt. I have always
how he should despise himself for the feverish influence it exercised
persuaded ’ee to stay? You then stood without a chattel to your name,

      There is nothing like dancing after all. I consider it as one of
doors opening—to fancy steps on the pavement or the gravel-walk! The
“Ah! now you are coming to reality,” I said, as I obeyed her. “I shall
      peculiar vexation.”
      “Oh, yes!—of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.

On the landing outside the drawing-room Gabriel found his wife and Mary
      an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and
      banished by the conviction that Mr. Darcy would never have
consolation. Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was
took most of his meals at his club. He paid some attention to the
I was speaking to you about....’ ‘That’ll be all right, Mr H.,’ he
wrote to my banker in London to send me certain jewels he has in his
“And you promised to give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.
as she has; just as if she were painted!—Bessie, I could fancy a Welsh
if somewhat rough-mannered old bachelor, whom the outside world called
Then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to
it began to rain again, so we stood in a row looking at the corrugated
A great tumult succeeded for some minutes, during which Miss Miller
a moment she added. “There wasn’t any connection.”
me why I should not go in for philanthropy.”
it all voluntarily, and, as I gather from Elizabeth, he has been very
      other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you
she thinks I’m a bit of class, you know.”



The interior of the hotel dining-room was spread out before her, with
superstitious—as if I were sitting in the room with something uncanny.
      her reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all
anything, means just that—and he must be about His Father’s business,
enthralls us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
but a small, expensive dog-leash, made of leather and braided
to tell her what it meant. Mr Holohan did not know what it meant. He
      what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my
      greater weight, I may suffer from want of money. Younger sons
the Scarecrow, when she had finished her dinner. So she told him all

genie, dwarf and fairy are eliminated, together with all the horrible
the one paved with yellow bricks. Within a short time she was walking
Grower, and it is at his hands I shall suffer if at anybody’s; while a

The girl glanced back at him over her shoulder and said with great
him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which
table.
      general satisfactory. Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither
that merely his own fancy?
“Not now, but he has had—or, at least, relatives. He lost his elder

don’t wish to throw away my time and trouble on an offering you would
“Yes, mamma?”

      Lydia had information for them of a different sort. Much had been
      She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each,

heart.”
Mr. Rochester, always at some exciting crisis; and then the sense of
delights should be withheld, or offered only at a price I cannot afford
twelve apostles, each enclosed in its separate panel as in a frame;
upon it. Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor’s tradesmen, and
a single commonplace out of the thousand in my head.
sin. It was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen
Millcote, the building was one mass of flame. It was a terrible
curious repute as a forecaster or weather-prophet. The way to his house
that our souls can get to it when we die?”
      promised; and, as he had likewise foretold, he took his seat at

      had. A most delightful place!—Excellent Parsonage House! It would
Her teaching had a reflex action upon herself, insomuch that she
or entered into any engagement; and this language was all much too hard
augment its rush and deepen its roar: the trees blew steadfastly one
“You looked very much puzzled, Miss Eyre; and though you are not pretty
“Hello!” I interrupted breathlessly. “Look here—this isn’t Mr.
low-comedian, who had introduced gags of his own and was on most
      and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a
knew it was wrong for the Wildcat to try to kill such a pretty,
white as pine-forests in wintry Norway. My hopes were all dead—struck


effort—no struggle;—but to have sunk down in the silken snare; fallen

arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England.
shook, and why I involuntarily spilt half the contents of my cup into

the slough, and swore that with that arm of iron he would thrust her
as he closed and barred the heavy yard-gates.
      prevented her from making that progress in many accomplishments
      Mrs. Bennet answered instantly, “Oh dear!—yes—certainly. I am

“Let me see. To-day is Tuesday. Let us fix to-morrow. She plays Juliet
roared out. “She wasn’t queer if I was. ’Tis like Susan to show such
were dressed in white; and all had a sweeping amplitude of array that
degree, seemed not the wildest vision; stranger things had occurred to
the following Saturday night he came with her to Gatsby’s
When last she had seen him he was sitting in a corduroy jacket, fustian
charmeuse in Brown Thomas’s to let into the front of Kathleen’s dress.
Gabriel coloured as if he felt he had made a mistake and, without
a lizard run over the crag; I saw a bee busy among the sweet

of the case?”
of the weak Apostle at the accusation, “Thy speech bewrayeth thee!”
questioning had made him lose his nerve for the moment, and he wanted
      comfortable house. Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to
everything. These common rough people, with their coarse faces and
His aunts were two small plainly dressed old women. Aunt Julia was an
procure food for you.’
In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already considerably
“You’d better speak to Mr Fitzpatrick,” said Mr Holohan distantly.


time was so unlike the present, their hopes and motives were so widely
abuse of me. At last I hired Grace Poole from the Grimbsy Retreat. She
significantly; “and it is not every one could fill her shoes—not for

was weakly dismayed at the ignorance, the poverty, the coarseness of


(Aside.) “Damn him!”—(To me.) “Did you like him, Jane?”
nothing save Fairfax Rochester’s pride; and that did not scare me,
cheek. He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or study.
      not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions. You will
“That’s the way the wind blows, is it?” he said at last grimly, nodding
my body and my arms and legs; and when they fastened on my head, at
she would win. To begin with she had all the weight of social opinion
have floored fellows a dee sight finer-looking than a dee fool like
real happiness! You say you love me, Janet: yes—I will not forget that;
      hear of; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their
in a man-o’-war suit, lay at her feet. It was she who had chosen the
colour of an autumn leaf, her face the same brown tint as the
      but while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.
some thought.”
      fastidious, and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting.
the floor.

were no spectators, and the whole scene presented the most melancholy
      wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford
“This is,” interrupted Dorian. “You must admit, Harry, that women give
which ended abruptly at the edge of the stream already mentioned.
wealth, long life, happiness and prosperity and may they long continue
buttons, breeches of the same, tanned leggings, and a straw hat
“O, it’s nothing,” said Mr Cunningham. “It’s only a little matter that
anything wrong. On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were
      when quite a lad which might agree with it, and was confident at
received the weight of his overcoat. I could interpret these signs.

He chuckled; he rubbed his hands. “Oh, it is rich to see and hear her!”
accommodate quietly to his masterhood; smile undisturbed at his

mercy! Have mercy, Aunt Reed!’ And that punishment you made me suffer
a husband’s heart for me than that frowning giant of a rock, down which
“Fairfax—”
      out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it herself, by
walking. His friends asked him had he seen Corley and what was the
“You were far too happy. When a woman marries again, it is because she
      done much. She was ashamed to think how much. But he had given a
there was no difficulty in accounting for his time—there were boys who


This was enough to set Elizabeth thinking, and in thinking she seized
      low phaeton at the garden gate.
men. She watched the pair and kept her own counsel.
fragrance and colour of her body appealed to his senses. He was

him. He tried to weigh his soul to see if it was a poet’s soul.
Chapter X
      “Indeed,” replied Elizabeth, “I am heartily sorry for him; but he
road till he saw them meet. His face assumed an expression of extreme

they started along the path of yellow brick for the Emerald City.
The arbour was an arch in the wall, lined with ivy; it contained a
heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where

I was left there alone—winner of the field. It was the hardest battle I
      “Elizabeth, you are not serious now.”
moralists call this world a dreary wilderness: for me it blossomed like
“Why are there so many idlers round the Town Hall to-day?” said Lucetta
      If there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability
Mary, and I will attach myself for life to Diana and Mary. It would

      to his aunt; that it was not in the least necessary there should
from your power.”
conferred gives you an unlimited claim on my gratitude, and a claim, to
again. His mood of cowardice had passed away.
point was: at least I thought so.

      well the expression of heartfelt delight, diffused over his face,

I have not felt these twelve months. If Saul could have had you for his
wife. Da Fontano the promoter came there, and Ed Legros and James B.


dinner-table; choose your seat in any quiet nook you like; you need not
seemed so little awkward. While they talked he tried to fix her

“I _do_ see a certain justice; but it is contrary to all custom.

us. We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find
only got into maelstrom depths here amongst the smugglers.
millions, but he had deliberately given Daisy a sense of security; he
dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused,

her work, in which her whole thoughts seemed absorbed: on her hard
“Perhaps you may—who knows? Have you any relations besides Mrs. Reed?”
since well repaid any little kindness I ever had it in my power to
      exactly defined. She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to
“I’ve left Daisy’s house,” she said. “I’m at Hempstead, and I’m going
tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees. I
      Elizabeth could not but look surprised.

species would bloom—found a charm both potent and permanent. They clung
      Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till
to make us both content in each other’s society.
you can’t fool God!’ ”
which had led to all her trouble remained with poor Lucetta still; she
down at the tablecloth. Someone coughed once or twice and then a few

passion. What there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of
drawn up: battlements, windows, long front—all from this sheltered

      Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young ladies to the
was no play. Maria understood that it was wrong that time and so she
these two articles of clothing, he said, a man could always pass

humanity. I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel;

the man followed him and caught him by the coat. The little boy looked

straightforward course open to him she was bound to admit.
touch the inmates of this house with concern on my behalf; to make them
      “No, I thank you,” she replied, endeavouring to recover herself.
      soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy. Console Lady Catherine as well as
      accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my
      in walking; if the first, I would be completely in your way, and
      could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had
assiduously industrious.
suffering child in a cold cradle; sickness and anguish had seized it;
door. The blind was pulled down to within an inch of the sash so that I
“Yes,” said Mr Cunningham. “He wrote Latin poetry.”
it was calm to the end: an earnestly felt, yet strictly restrained zeal
where to find in my drawers some linen, a locket, a ring. In seeking
me. The crisis was perilous; but not without its charm: such as the
      Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:
Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival,
      hoped it would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.
the Yellow Castle again, Dorothy shedding a few tears by the way at the


It was dark here in front; only the bright door sent ten square feet

“He ought not to have done it!” said Farfrae.

man of her husband’s age would not change greatly before death. She was

but scarcely seemed to relish it more than Pilot would have done, nor
at the inn, and thither, ere long, I returned. The host himself brought
recollections as her mother was, regarded him with nothing more than
death?
large assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the
“No, no!” said Henchard, almost in anger. “I’m not the man to sponge on
a spiteful antipathy she had conceived against little Adèle: pushing
“The piece is known,” he concluded lustily, “as ‘Vladmir Tostoff’s
window of a poor-looking shop over which the words _Refreshment Bar_
hold of a blue _ignis fatuus_ light in a marsh. Truant! truant!” he
      “His pride,” said Miss Lucas, “does not offend _me_ so much as
I flew thither and back, bringing the desired vessels.
      expression in their united volubility. In Lydia’s imagination, a

“Good night.” He smiled—and suddenly there seemed to be a pleasant

      concerned that their living together before the marriage took

“I know not whether I am a true philanthropist; yet I am willing to aid
“I felt sure you had. Did you make a scene with her?”
      comply with the wishes of all her family. “Pray do, my dear Miss
name, Alice, as he used to do. Now, can you tell me whether it is
      there will probably be of some duration.”



me. I asked him to come in.

our present man, or his predecessor, but some of the old popes—not
compassion? Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed
Adèle here came running up again.


occupied the foot of the table where I sat, and a strange,

that vigorous spirit to a corporeal infirmity. He sat in his
      side, nobody takes part with me. I am cruelly used, nobody feels
“Alan, they will have to interest you. This one will have to interest

desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible
No! No! I never could survive so horrible a misfortune.”
afternoon?”
only a small apartment, but I thought you would like it better than one
      on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods
bright brick houses with shining roofs. The children of the avenue used

words could have done, and with less trouble.
forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas,
“No, no; I fain would, but I can’t,” said Henchard gravely, the
mankind. If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and
race, and unconnected with her, after her husband’s death, by any tie?

Adèle, when lifted in, commenced kissing me, by way of expressing her

Then I went on further, and some neighbourly woodmen lent me a bed, and
      meet Miss Bennet. The subject was pursued no farther, and the


“Farfrae—Mr. Farfrae!” cried the breathless Henchard, holding up his
mild a vengeance for thy crimes. Wretched devil! You reproach me with
Beyond the stream was the open moor, from which a clammy breeze smote
      advancement in the best manner that his profession might
the waist, his hair was scant and grey and his face, when the waves of
and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair. Everywhere I
  Chapter 31
      pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually
composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and
brilliantly blooming. I stopped at it. What business had I to approach
that you appeared to me as a great Head?”

A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back
They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made accidental,

believed me to be without any friends save them: for, indeed, I had
      and their tranquillity.
      cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father
answered earnestly. “I don’t like your country, although it is so
felt himself superior to the people he passed. For the first time his
 XXXVIII
moment all of them were filled with wonder. For they saw, standing in
A soft sound of rising now became audible; the curtain was swept back
opportunity of gauging his mind. I first got an idea of its calibre
but when he did open his eyes and roll off the truck he was very glad
      entailed, in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and

hesitation. “A chance of a place in a household where I can have
stirred, lifted his strong arm—he could have struck Mason, dashed him
detested scenes of every kind.
of this. It was evident that in their former intercourse, the passive
“They go to hell,” was my ready and orthodox answer.
walked down the path I was now ascending. On a dark, misty, raw morning
      As for Jane, _her_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course,
“You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry.”
“He has been laid on here like the gas,” said Aunt Kate in the same
intellectual approval, passions that without such justification would

him, I must say.”
Rex if he comes here next year? What do we want kowtowing to a foreign
mine? Say yes, quickly.”
      After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
“contes de fée,” and that “du reste, il n’y avait pas de fées, et quand

Margaret Mary Alacoque. He had been a school friend of her father.
From the background Elizabeth-Jane watched the scene. Some seats had
has wandered or what region he may now inhabit.”
the dining-room tables wheeled away, the lights otherwise disposed, the
favour.
Instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she
         Of fawning priests—no friends of his.



ceiling, and then rippled over the wine-coloured rug, making a shadow
dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame—”
      and he was so much struck with the size and furniture of the
Mr. Sloane didn’t enter into the conversation, but lounged back
 XVIII
Next morning I sent the butler to New York with a letter to Wolfshiem,

brilliant pianist—but, unfortunately, very poor.
watches of that long night passed in ghastly wakefulness; ear, eye, and

during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own
leave her little dog behind. Toto had run into the crowd to bark at a
bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm
      could be sought after—the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were
know, as Pope, was _Lux upon Lux—Light upon Light_.”

She was wondering what was the matter, when a third person who was
      Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and
been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of
him as his sister.”

Jopp, his old foreman, now employed elsewhere, to whom, though he hated
close, in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in sheer
little clouds of smoke dribbled through his fingers over the front of

eyes and mouth. Little jets of wheezing laughter followed one another
“Even that’s a lie,” said Tom savagely. “She didn’t know you were

was not too late; I could yet spare him the bitter pang of bereavement.
her, and began to deal them rapidly, telling Elizabeth to choose some.
“Last Thursday (May 7th), I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to
wynd-pipe the breath for that Psalm, so help me!”
The people made way for them. At the corner of Grafton Street a short
defects. Still, society associated my name and person with hers; I yet
like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible
they were scarcely reclaimed, lay between me and the dusky hill.

with his dog-eared schoolbooks. On the wall behind it was hanging the
South, like a flock of glorious passenger birds, and lighted to rest
course, what the answer would be, but yet desirous of deferring the

but not as your wife; I cannot marry you and become part of you.”
      incensed Mrs. Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as
silence by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before.
“Yes; though I touch it, it is a dream,” said I, as I put it down from
 “I’m the Sheik of Araby. Your love belongs to me. At night when
      consented, and a servant was dispatched to Longbourn to acquaint
that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in
He began to puff again at his pipe without giving us his theory. My
      the Bell, you will be attended to.”
      not that I do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other
cheeks and nodding his head at them saucily, he said:
and Freddy Malins invited Mr Browne into the cab. There was a good deal
man with a hard, empty face—the pioneer debauchee, who during one



left Santa Barbara Tom ran into a wagon on the Ventura road one night,
      “Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.”
      “Yes, very indifferent indeed,” said Elizabeth, laughingly. “Oh,
“I’ll tell you, if I can, the idea, the picture these words opened to
efforts were still repulsed and repaid by such sentences as the above.
“My grandfather was at that time the King of the Winged Monkeys which
domes, embosomed among aged trees.
and I suppose there never will be, for they don’t belong there. We

As the light failed and his memory began to wander he thought her hand
his voice was checked.
“I am so glad I have found you, Dorian,” he said gravely. “I called
“One night I had been awakened by her yells—(since the medical men had
and the satisfaction that the constant flicker of men and women and
improved.”
according to the colours of their uniforms, the first two black, with

      while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building,
stood beside her.
“Lord! no, no!” said Solomon Longways, smiling grimly. “That’s only his
“Why, I suppose you have a governess for her: I saw a person with her
will be sure, his faith steadfast. His own words are a pledge of this—
did not hide the marks of introspective inflexibility on his features
possible from the city of which he was a citizen and because he found


      her, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. She
dried her eyes and went over to the looking-glass. She dipped the end
      should even speak to her was amazing!—but to speak with such
effective as the seven deadly sins. In a thoughtless moment I asked one
benevolent of human creatures. She nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in
Then he led them into his little room and locked the spectacles from
“What do you want?” I asked, with awkward diffidence.
I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish
      information of it.
that stretched about the Emerald City on every side. They slept that
      sister except Mary agreed to go with her; and Mr. Collins was to

      reflections. Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity,
lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me and gives
So once more the little company set off upon the journey, the Lion
books they held in their hands, like people consulting a dictionary to
denizen of Broadway.”
Seizing the sailor’s arm with her right hand, and mounting the little
And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leaves growing on the

“Oz was not such a bad Wizard, after all,” said the Tin Woodman, as he
husband—whom I had often called “my dear Edward!”
Thus urged, I began the narrative of my experience for the last year. I
selfishness that makes me press ’ee; for my business is not quite so
black, where the dry soil bore only heath. Dark as it was getting, I
      for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother,
purchased to afford him a new opening. Had he been only personally
information of the people at the inn; they can give you all you seek:
      impertinent of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical.
with him. How had she played that dreadful last scene? Had she cursed
      “Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of
accommodation. He had, therefore, sent on his two-days’ bride in a
      by business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the
Of my own accord I could not have stirred; I was paralysed: but the two
“I was able to do the commissioner a favour once, and he sends me a
canvas, smiled Lady Elizabeth Devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl
inducement to enter any. I rambled round the hamlet, going sometimes to
other party withdrew, he and his band took the vacated seats. Miss
woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she
That he had looked up from a letter to ask his questions completely


      with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the
      well-wisher and friend,


      daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and
      _that_ was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since
      of Wickham’s marrying Mary King. There’s for you! She is gone

miserable. To speak truth, I had not the least wish to go into company,

background, with the tone of a man who preferred the original subject.
      mother. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously

      a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park; he was
      and still different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr.
hating him. It was his conviction that she would not so refrain; and
might have befitted the leader of a forlorn hope, mounting a breach in

“Harry, Harry, it is terrible!” cried the lad.

where everything had been so inopportune, for making a desperate effort
      been frequently in company with him since her return, agitation
acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good
stood at the window, some inventive suggestion would rise for my

“West Briton!”
It was about eight o’clock, and Lucetta was sitting in the drawing-room

Evidently he lived in this vicinity, for he told me that he had just
      a considerable eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was
“Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The
      “My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope
entire victim. He will never love me; but he shall approve me; I will
no respite; no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could

      an ugly fellow! I am glad he is gone. I never saw such a long
the dark muddy lanes behind the houses where we ran the gauntlet of the
holly, not an evergreen to rustle, and the stripped hawthorn and hazel

of the great romantic tragedies of the age. As a rule, people who act
wrong-doing at the fair when I was young, if I had never been so
painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had
“My bride! What bride? I have no bride!”
“Thank you, sir. Tell me what to do,—I’ll try, at least, to do it.”
of her innocence as I had. She had been out the whole of the night on

      her aunt than to herself. His apparent partiality had subsided,
that had produced the substitution? Might there not be some curious
devotion and heroism, this elevation of mind had much the appearance of

right hand and to the left; but I could discover no pretext, nor see an
minds which hardly any later friend can obtain. They know our
the spot with his domestic situation was too perfect for him, impatient
there was a strip of light green silk, then a strip of dark green and
the bars of the gate, “I can starve you. You shall have nothing to eat


had any hearts at all.”
of his age fall in love with girls, they are often like as if they were
the lady whom Mr. Brocklehurst called your benefactress?”
      you and Jane seem so well to understand?”
      attention from Mr. Darcy than he has received; and I am sorry to
her left eye knocked out by the kick of another, her own sister, coming
concern than astonishment; he did not immediately speak when I had
town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every
      the end of next week.”
drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds? He longed to see the curious
her closing the oven-door.
surprise Elizabeth-Jane was standing there. She came forward, spoke,
life. Indeed, I have not mentioned the most important one.”
Let us follow the train of Mr. Henchard’s thought as if it were a clue
alterations I pleased, and a sum having been set aside for that
“From _you_, sir.”
garden: it was void.


      added:
and the other gentlemen directed these alterations, the ladies were

was a very clever woman with what Lord Henry used to describe as the
receiving the new ideas he offered, in imagining the new pictures he
“You will,” I answered shortly. “You will if you stay in the East.”
“Not like some of the other priesthoods on the continent,” said Mr
leave permanent mark upon its chronicles, as a warm summer permanently
was a grand boon doubtless; and independence would be glorious—yes, I
and shut her out from your converse. Teachers, you must watch her: keep
I had talked with him perhaps half a dozen times in the past month and
“There’s something funny about a fellow that’ll do a thing like that,”
Indian enterprise. He could not any longer delay his departure; but as
and worthier existence—shown to you, not my _resolution_ (that word is
sense, to which he had advanced)—denaturalized him. He would often
novel from the library, had flung herself in haughty listlessness on a
dead and inorganic things? Nay, without thought or conscious desire,


burst into the room, followed by Mr Holohan, who was panting. The
sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else’s music, an
up! I should think there were fifty ladies and gentlemen present—all of
I now see compassion in your eyes; let me seize the favourable moment

her mother had better take their own suppers if they meant to have any.
unwholesome trade than an artist occupied by his favourite employment.
Bird brought him around at the last minute and asked if we had room
an audacity that wants chastising out of you, you seem to question it),
      with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia

wake. They rose expectant: eye and ear waited while the flesh quivered

      stranger, were become “stupid, disagreeable fellows.” Some of
which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys.
inextinguishable hatred. Have a care; I will work at your destruction, nor
“Oz himself is the Great Wizard,” answered the Witch, sinking her voice
      the evening. After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was
indulged a while in this sedative, she raised her bent body, took the
only said—
land.
But the answer my mind gave—“Leave Thornfield at once”—was so prompt,
side, “a terrible, terrible mistake.”
alter his mind?”
this a free country?”
were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally. Tell me now,
of her own to be in your place.—Now, come in, and I’ve some good news
      encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary.
and that her father would never consent to the union. My generous friend
 And turns no more his head;
      resolved on having him. But let me advise you to think better of
decisive.”
representative of Henchard.
that charms one. A mist makes things wonderful.”

“Oh, Jim!” said Sibyl, laughing, “how unkind of you! But are you really
When he had done, instead of feeling better, calmer, more enlightened

amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer
whenever Michaelis heard a car go tearing along the road outside it
City. It was high and thick and of a bright green color.
pass along.”
before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance

Gabriel glanced down at his aunts and, seeing the large smile on Aunt


came here to sell them, bringing the clay of their county on their
the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its
paper and put them into my bag; then she helped me on with my pelisse
sufferings—what object for his strong passions—had he sought there? I
My head still ached and bled with the blow and fall I had received: no
      took leave of you on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to
my mother’s brother. My father and he quarrelled long ago. It was by
“Corner of Merrion Street. We’ll be coming back.”
      arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in

ones and said it was only right that the youngsters should enjoy
swam as I stood erect. I perceived that I was sickening from excitement
stranger, and have done nothing to entitle me to an acknowledgment.”
housekeeper during the convulsions from which Farfrae’s establishment

“I commit my cause to the justice of my judges, yet I see no room for
and believe so much at his house, when at church they professed so much
visible a something floating in the circular pool formed by the wash of
      the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be
“Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?” asked the duchess after
to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall.
under the ordeal which was making a blush invade his forehead.
      “I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me

“And I will give the missionary my energies—it is all he wants—but not
“Nay, there was naught but her, and she was housekeeper;” and of her,
to search hither and thither for the constables, there were two in the
inquiringly.
_shall_ be convinced. What love have I for Miss Ingram? None: and that
not heretofore tell: but revelations were being made in this

What agony was this! And the man seemed resolved to protract it.

persuaded him to make an exchange in favour of a sober black satin and
spent a great deal of his time working in the laboratory, and had taken
finer than we are ourselves? Or, perhaps, all these? And why was the

in defiance of every precept and principle of this house, does she
want. And there are obstacles in the way: they must be hewn down. Jane,

the curling fumes of punch. As he walked on he preconsidered the terms
else—ay, and a better right than those shoneens that are always hat in
“Come in!” said Mr Henchy.
      “My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them—by
chambermaids in the Santa Barbara Hotel.
have suffered a martyrdom from their incompetency and caprice. I thank
first recollections. I was their plaything and their idol, and something
      Phillips understood from him what Rosings was, and who was its
gate, and looked into an empty field where no sheep were feeding, where
      In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the
one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of
some other mode of action.
and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars, it was the same
nodded politely, and then his face broke into that radiant and
His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his
still comparatively an active man—for he was not much over forty—and
      the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest
      not missed till yesterday morning at eight. The express was sent
take them off and polish them with his pocket-handkerchief. The


fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.” I
He went to his room and dressed. There was a wild recklessness of
“Now see what injury a man may cause around him! Even after that
marriage. His letter was then calm, and, though very serious, kind. He
wondered, too, at the punctual satisfaction he never failed to exhibit
laugh sometimes”—but there was no laughter in his eyes—“to think that
“Just see that nobody drives against that hay and waggon to-night,

      Your younger sisters must be very young?”
to that space in the sky opposite my casement, and looked in at me
“It seems to me that we never do anything else,” murmured Dorian.
to come out with me for a walk, Sibyl. I don’t suppose I shall ever see
“Did I?” She looked at me. “I can’t seem to remember, but I think we
importance, perhaps,” she murmured to herself: “and then I may get
step to find you—travelled—advertised. My opinion at last was that you
the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of
      of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of
of Mr Bartell D’Arcy’s protest, paid the driver. He gave the man a
the development of filial love.
      various conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to
listened—then the glow faded, each light deserting her with lingering
level eye of humanity it stood as an indistinct mass behind a dense
beginning to fall he moved and stood under the shelter where she had
took out a cigar,—I will take one now, if you will excuse me.”
their very verge. Yet a chance traveller might pass by; and I wish no
eighteen months their intimacy lasted. Campbell was always either at
quite leery.” She clapped her hand to her mouth, but too late.
father, till I was quite flighty and unsettled. He was an officer in
hastily wiped away some tears, the impotent evidences of my anguish.



      was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in
entering by their narrow casement showed bedsteads of a hundred years
had sprung up tall as trees, lilies had opened, tulips and roses were
business from him. I am sorry to disappoint you, but I cannot hurt the
      self-reproach. This matter may be considered, therefore, as
door. Her brother always teased her before he obeyed and I stood by the
green ribbon around Toto’s neck, and they started for the Throne Room
her lover’s lips. I have watched her wandering through the forest of

laughing. She _was_ a little vulgar; sometimes she said “I seen” and
own hands the terrible portrait whose changing features showed him the
“John Reed is dead, too, sir: he ruined himself and half-ruined his
was a big woman, in stature almost equalling her husband, and corpulent
at me, openly and without diffidence, “you and your sisters have done
observed, when I rejoined her in her room, after putting Adèle to bed.
butterfly.”
to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity
careful, or you oughtn’t to drive at all.”
street, giving strong expression to a song of his dear native country
received, and, that too, shown by my employer and superior; but as she

      she, “did he come at all?”
      and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good
handsome-featured face of his look more like chiselled marble than it

      in sinking Mr. Darcy’s character, though he had assured her that
through the seas which surround the pole. You may remember that a
Mr. Hallward?’ she screamed out. You know her curiously shrill voice?”
my heart I love her all the time.”
inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by
schoolmaster in The Vicar of Wakefield: ‘I have ten thousand florins

      will make the surprise the greater, when I write to them and sign
I returned to the window and fetched it thence.
      Forster’s. Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and Mrs.
leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and
irritability; and his coldness was such that it encouraged her to
flashed through Lucetta’s mind when she was on the point of bursting
“I will not part with a petal.”
      “They have both,” said she, “been deceived, I dare say, in some
flinging both on the floor, trampled on them
all I heard and saw round me. But let me not hate and despise myself
“Hush, Jane! you think too much of the love of human beings; you are
signal. You must go into the Throne Room alone.”


donna_ and pull her themselves through the streets to her hotel. Why

but you, Miss Newson——”
with Farfrae’s modest look—and with something of a hail-fellow bearing,
Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of
Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap.
intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female





      “That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elizabeth, “that I
pale portrait of the thing I had conceived.
seated ladies, sang in unison, with Mr Browne as leader:
      say more; but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted—”
it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter.
His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to
      said, may not be for several years. This has been my motive, my

stage of the world and made sin so marvellous and evil so full of
hard to keep him away?”


Indeed, comparatively indifferent as Elizabeth-Jane was to dress,
“They are not fit to associate with me.”

Thus they parted; and Elizabeth-Jane and her mother remained each in
      She follows him to town in hope of keeping him there, and tries
“My father!” cried I, while every feature and every muscle was relaxed
grate.
is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about
back. There were fewer houses and fewer fruit trees, and the farther
“sacks,” “quarters,” “threshing,” “tailing,” “next Saturday’s market,”
paid for. If he could only write a book and get it published, that
momentarily forgot my own sorrows to yield to a vague concern for her.
      suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken,

      choice.”

self-doubt, forlorn depression, fell damp on the embers of my decaying



My rest might have been blissful enough, only a sad heart broke it. It
“I suppose that’s your doing,” said Lenehan.
week or more: when these fine, fashionable people get together, they
was thinly covered his face lapsed into darkness but, as he set himself
“He does—he has asked me to be his wife.”
Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You
      almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth.
“I will show you the way, Mr. Hubbard, if you will kindly follow me. Or
“Which you shall make for me, Jane. I will abide by your decision.”
mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase of knowledge only
boilers. The fire was nice and bright and on one of the side-tables
pavement and the roadway. Moreover every shop pitched out half its
condemning me to take my meals alone, and pass all my time in the
never be sure of weather till ’tis past.”

“Why did you, Myrtle?” demanded Catherine. “Nobody forced you to.”

door-knocker with ribbon. Two poor women and a telegram boy were
until seventy-and-seven times.”

resulted in a tendency to domineer, which, however, was checked in a
deliberately: “Now I am not the man to let a cause be lost for want of
Don’t frown like that. You make it so much more difficult for me.”
worked for three days and four nights, hammering and twisting and
picture?”

ask you; because you never felt love. You have both sentiments yet to
anguish.
women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her
however, behind her back.
She agreed willingly, and he took her over the highway, and by the
“What?” I inquired politely.

south. He soon reached the summit, and disappeared.
“No, he’s not,” I assured her. “It’s a bona-fide deal. I happen to
“This is the last time you can summon us,” said the leader to Dorothy;
time to time as if a series of invisible but alarming happenings were

seat in a third-class carriage of a deserted train. After an

taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my

dripping clothes were removed; soon a warm, dry bed received me. I


concluded.
world. The coach is a mile off by this time; I am alone. At this moment
world is a dungeon: you must be admired, you must be courted, you must
Henchard stood without the inn for a few instants; then lowering the
grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as, if you do your
contrary opinion: I was silent. Mrs. Reed answered for me by an

The hair in his nostrils quivered slightly, and as he shook his head
of shelves of white wood. The bed was clothed with white bedclothes and

the heartaches and nightmares are left out.

      now, when no importance could result from the success of his
that, even now. “H’m—I hope so,” he said. “But you shall have the
it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this
      in equal silence, was enjoying the scene. Mr. Bingley and Jane
Mr. Brocklehurst hemmed.

fascinating Mr. Rochester, to witness their repeated failure—herself


      pleasant man; he certainly admired her, and his situation in life
Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work
between the crevices of their lids—“canst mind the sherry-wine, and the

“Then I will tell you that the case is more complicated—worse, in
cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been
difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the
Janet—that I may have the evidence of touch as well as sight, to prove
bind us indissolubly; and when we are once united, there shall be no
was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest. There was no doubt
morning.”
sounded richer and more full of joy. The moment she touched actual
experiments.
“But in the interval she—my poor friend—had seen a man, she liked

rings.”

The former tenant of our house, a priest, had died in the back
      her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off
complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough to him any more.
into the room and at her. “I like staying; but I fear I must go!” he
“Well, whatever my sufferings had been, they were very short,” I
had repaired towards the town. When he stood at the bottom of the
yielded me supreme delight—so deeply was I engrossed in my
actual entrance to the inn.
keep away the other wild beasts. It seems to me they must be more
necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of
“O, Miss Daly, you’re really awfully good, after playing for the last
Elizabeth-Jane sat at her window one Sunday, and while there she heard
“On the wharf?”
near the Emerald City.”
brought nothing for me, I fell a prey to the keenest anxiety.
Henchard went home, apparently satisfied. But in the morning, when his
A chorus of boisterous laughter came from the other rocks, and Dorothy
of that sort, to make me a handsome man?”
quarters: no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me. Towards
upper lips of southeastern Europe, and I was glad that the sight of
chair—still, but not at rest: expectant evidently; the lines of now

They had reached the corner of Ely Place. Still without answering,
Then she withdrew them, went into the house and emptied her husband’s

“Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the




      not tell you how little I was satisfied with _her_ behaviour
      And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater beauty. Mrs.
“Well, you are too late,” said the corn-factor. “I can say no more.”
hot over there.”

I had told too much, that I had put too much of myself into it. Then it
      wrote also with great pleasure of her brother’s being an inmate
them threw themselves in half-reclining positions on the sofas and
paradise was of a strange and direful nature. I observed but two points
mother-of-pearl buttons and a ragged black boa. The ends of her tulle
all circumstances, evinced for me a quiet and faithful friendship,
      Mrs. Collins sat down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose
“She never did so before,” at last said Bessie, turning to the Abigail.
I noticed these objects cursorily only—in them there was nothing
him, and married him, against the advice of all her friends, who
manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings.
prayer-book and the other three got the water; and when one of the
I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow
then dropped on one knee at his feet, exclaiming—
warned me to curtail my sentence.
I knelt. She did not stoop towards me, but only gazed, leaning back in

“I understand. I thought you were for flying off on some excursion. It
      They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and
“I do it every day,” he replied. “You have left me; everybody has left
with snow. The Wellington Monument wore a gleaming cap of snow that
      there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the
evil consequences will extend to all connected with you; and besides,
against the sky, and its bell was tolling a quarter; I saw a narrow
never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal
The cloud lifted from Henchard’s brow, and as Donald finished the
both she and Mary agreed that St. John should never have persuaded them

her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn
had not; and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and
let it blow quietly away.
latterly been taking, that the new books which had so surprised him,

whispered as she drew near, “’Tis he.”
over him; how he should wish to stifle and destroy it; how he should
left several explanations in the air.
      entrance. She was not equal, however, to much conversation, and
“No harm in trying,” he said.
brownie, or in any other form that pleases him. But who the real Oz is,

Chapter 9
She knelt down on the hearth and took her friend’s hands excitedly in
companion. “I know she goes in for giving a rapid _précis_ of all her
fallen—by conflagration: but how kindled? What story belonged to this
its homeward voyage from Archangel; more fortunate than I, who may not
with its fluctuating, feverish warmth, because it couldn’t be
commendatory remark from outsiders—everything, except the sky; and to
“I am no bird; and no net ensnares me; I am a free human being with an
      which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
      Then after a short silence he continued:
“They are very good men, the monks, very pious men.”
crabbed-looking old chap, looking at him from under his bushy

This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia. They fly
strike some minutes since.”

“A young lady accustomed to tuition” (had I not been a teacher two
evincing superiority to idle terrors. Amy and Louisa, return to your
  Thomas Parke d’Invilliers

scope for his spirit of enterprise. The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit
squire when he went there in the season to shoot.
taking substance under my eyes. School and home seemed to recede from

“To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it?” exclaimed Dorian Gray, a
lips before, “you are sure to be much sought after for your position,

obscurity clouding one eye was becoming less dense; and that now he was
subject being quite forgotten. Men were putting their heads together in
communicated or discussed. If I told anything, my tale would be such as
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been
      evening in this way! I declare after all there is no enjoyment
a summons from Heaven—as if a visionary messenger, like him of
How curious!”

all others in the town!”
      partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than a perfect

against the church-tower behind, where the smacking of the rope against
tubes and dry brushes, seeking for something. Yes, it was for the long
pronounce Latin properly. He had told me stories about the catacombs

growing bigger and bigger at the wonderful sights she saw.

horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and
constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion. He must
his breast. Oh, never more could it turn to him; for faith was
waves of mountains far beyond that deep valley at my feet. The

      pleased to close his large book, and go.
“For,” he said, “if I should get caught in the rain, and rust again, I
the Woodman was not a vain man he did not mind the patches at all.

      house.
him.

dressed in a green uniform and wearing a long green beard.
“Well, I’m all right now. Where have they got Jimmy?”

another day.
opened?
the soft, fresh grass; and it was not long before they reached the road
cold and frost, to which I am impassive. You will find near this place, if
scarcely controvert.”
      the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return?
understand him.

went; for all was well arranged and handsome. The large front chambers
from labour—the old man played on his guitar, and the children
“I don’t like to see ’ee,” he repeated.
      imperturbably grave. She looked at her father to entreat his
gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy

      her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but
      Heaven! I am going to-morrow where I shall find a man who has not
      heard an accent so removed from _hauteur_ or disdain of his
their echo toned every answer he gave me.

splendid round, bold hand of her own conception, a style that would
      gates and look into the park. The five weeks which she had now
Lucetta did not add, as she might have done, that the house was in St.
my nature to feel pleasure in yielding to an authority supported like

“The old man paused and then continued, ‘If you will unreservedly
“And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps? I
brightening momentarily, she looked over Hay, which, half lost in
“Yes, indeed was he; and he went up to the attics when all was burning
a few moments on a quiet night, might hear singular symphonies from
amazement. He had never seen him like this before. The lad was actually
the silence with which I pursued them, according to me the privilege of
midnight, while his station wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to
“But my curiosity will be past its appetite; it craves food now.”
about some business which he was conducting there. Farfrae knew nothing
      regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving

mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly. Not one of us is safe
stood on the porch, his hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.
      in the hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had Elizabeth

Scotchman that revealed itself in the women’s faces; and when this
      _They_ will take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will
He returned to his desk in the lower office and counted the sheets
desert, and then it should be easy to find your way home.”
Henchard, being uncultivated himself, was the bitterest critic the fair
      situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness
      “whether he is likely to be in this country much longer.”
that the lady had stood there a long time. She returned homeward,
forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent
      or make either appear to advantage. She was not near enough to
      opened to his nieces a source of felicity unknown before. They
      sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and
the others pursuing their way.
reproaches she poured out on me do not now cause me any twinges, as

“For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess,” said Lord Henry with a
side of your shoe; turn your toes out immediately.” “Burns, you poke

now at peace for ever. She died on the first approach of cold weather,
Lady Ruxton glanced at him curiously. “You must come and explain that
stained cloth. Through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of
peals and worshippers, singly or in groups, traversed the little circus

weigh and consider for hours together the meaning of such and such a
shall put them off in putting off our corruptible bodies; when
      not object to it, why should _we_?”
days or weeks, at most, and you are parted from him for ever!” And then
      elevate her with the hope of influencing his felicity; sensible
merely sitting quietly at his side, saying little and looking less, get
as great as self-control could desire. I derived benefit from the task:
“This?” he inquired, holding it up.
      she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the
      not believe it, and could not help saying so.
vanished for ever.
not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of cowardice. I take


have done something; trivial, transitory though the deed was, it was
each other all that time, old sport, and you didn’t know. I used to
good and mine: it was a fine day, if you recollect—the calmness of the
      principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could
“Look!” she complained; “I hurt it.”
“Stand back then,” said Henchard, “and let’s hear what you’ve got to
      particular care of their cousin Jane, who was the general
“Is he stuffed?” asked the Lion in surprise, as he watched her pick up
early: perhaps he is now walking in the orchard, or on the pavement in
vengeance?”
“And you felt self-satisfied with the result of your ardent labours?”
flaming and flashing eyes.
      return to his family, and leave it to him to do whatever occasion
intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential

sharp look-out. It had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of
those in the car. In one of these trimly built cars was a party of four
      them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first

but they saw that no harm was intended, so they rode through the air
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought back
      “Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear

 XLIV
recall, if you please, my notice, clearly given, that if I helped you,
      incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than
One of the men nodded in confirmation.
across the desert will be through the air. Now, it is quite beyond my
“You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil,” cried Lord
      state at this time, for from the day of the invitation, to the
As Dorothy gazed upon this in wonder and fear, the eyes turned slowly
roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge,

      noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.

purpose: that of fulfilling with effect—with power—the mission of your
before him, and with his brow supported on both hands, hung fondly over
marked degree one that, in the common phrase, afforded much to be

were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the various keys were
with such labour prepared—so assiduously sown with the seeds of good
think so, Mr. Gray?”
      very often. At least, you should not _remind_ your mother of
“Why, he’ll soon be Mayor!” said Henchard. It was indeed hard that the
this might happen. But through the whole period during which I was the
      the circumstances, she thus went on: “I am now convinced, my dear
birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs; the time of
_She_ (reddening).—“I don’t know that. My reason, however, such as it
only for a single act. I get hungry for her presence; and when I think
February. We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the
appearing before the eyes of belated travellers. I returned to my
goodness to step forward.”
sister, and a great favourite with him: he opposed the family’s

When Mrs. Fairfax had bidden me a kind good-night, and I had fastened
err: you have not wept at all! I see a white cheek and a faded eye, but
everything alone.”
Should come on pinion, strong and fleet,
“Did you speak?” asked the girl, in wonder.
bathrooms and take cold baths, and then assumed more tangible form as
      love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth



Lynns, the languid elegance of Lord Ingram,—even the military

He imitated with his mouth the act of tasting and made a wry face.
“But tell me—do—what is it floating there?”
strangers and destroy them.
bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two
      be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and
desperately as if to snatch only a wisp of air, to save a fragment of
‘You look more like a prince. I must call you Prince Charming.’”
Just then another groan reached their ears, and the sound seemed to
The company had by this time decidedly degenerated, and the renewed
“Now then,” he said, “Psalm the Hundred-and-Ninth, to the tune of
      married and settled. And one of my own daughters. I suppose you
Or what does it mean?”
imprudence incarnate she would not have acted as she did when she met
much. If he had lived, he would have made provision for us. Don’t speak

now entered the room. They ought to have come a little sooner to have
What passions had he bequeathed? The world had looked upon him as
“You had better go,” she urged. “You will lose a customer.

      was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted. She had
them. And now I thought: till now I had only heard, seen,
misrepresentation, coming at such a moment, dragged Henchard’s name
miserable cruelty. I could not forget my own sensations when you thus
the order to start, for she feared if the mice stayed among the poppies
attraction, turned and dwelt upon a spot about a hundred yards further
the proceeding was piquant: I felt interested to see how he would go
he, “when I mean shortly to claim you—your thoughts, conversation, and
upon us, his fellow-students, with a curious intensity of observation:
serve, drifted or were forced into Mixen Lane.
      marriage, that she wished it to take place as soon as possible,
and, in the dearth of worthier objects of affection, I contrived to
Clerval had never sympathised in my tastes for natural science; and his
religious forms;—Brocklehurst, who I understand directs Lowood, is a
purchase—though the exact bearings and legal limits of that right were
“For me,” said Aunt Kate, who had been picking a bone, “there was only
garden, now leaf-strewn by autumn winds, and thus, like a wise
doctor’s imperative orders that Farfrae should be brought home, and how

begun life as an advanced Nationalist, had modified his views early. He
      Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, he
the path he had marked for himself; he pursues it still. A more
many signs of future greatness in his friend. People used to say that
      assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to

      “I do not recollect that we did.”
people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage, don’t you
endeavoured to open it softly. I trembled from head to foot; I felt a

When he had said it and kissed the big book, the hay-trusser arose, and
He left the room. In this brief hour I had learnt more of him than in
Mr Cunningham was the very man for such a case. He was an elder
likely to hear. Mrs. Fairfax’s room and yours are the nearest to
yet I was passionately fond of reading. These volumes were my study
“I heard in the town that you were a widower.”
seven years since, when she was a girl of eighteen. She came here to a
persistent silence could not be misunderstood. There had been no open

before it was quite daylight, at a great city—a huge city, with very
“The same, if you like, sir.”

had characterized him in the Casterbridge street as a man who had seen
eighteen, like the fool that I was; and this is the consequence o’t.”

once conventional and grotesque, crouching under a sullen, overhanging
There was nothing to cool or banish love in these circumstances, though
like all sublunary things, and once more, towards the close of a
my ear! Go on: what fault do you find with me, pray? I suppose I have
      civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all,
solitary ways, and sometimes came upon belated travellers, as this
She returned; with her own hands cleared her knitting apparatus and a
him, for his mind was full of a present joy.
  Chapter 6
sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a
fro, till, I think, the said Sam’s calves must have ached with the
thought. But sitting here in cold blood he could not do it.
head; and then I think you will cease to entertain doubts of my
things.
“You’re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even trying!”
Mr. Lloyd came again.
was staying with him, were to go home to dress. The car steered out
these revelations of his feelings only made my work more difficult.
Oz would give me some brains?”
pull it quite easily. Even the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman could sit
Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he
Aunt Kate and Gabriel laughed too.
heart—a sense of outlawry and almost of reprobation—to seek the chilly



heavenly—if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and
extremely civil. I assure you that it is an education to visit it.”

hate you?”

      While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound
that at last no evidence remained of the unlucky episode with Henchard
profane world of spectators amid nudges and significant looks. Then as

North Richmond Street, being blind, was a quiet street except at the
“Sir?”


He was not in any of the lower rooms; he was not in the yard, the
thought the Scarecrow said:
“It is, to be sure; and when you get to Bitternutt Lodge, Connaught,
Casterbridge as time goes on. If they tell you I’m a coquette, which

      of bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not
in the dignity of its calling. He had never been seen in the city
fashionable. But here is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I
strange manners of poisoning—poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch,
agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial. I believed

Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest. This was a new scene to us
mere sake of talking and showing off, he will find he has addressed
      “You cannot be too much upon your guard. Risk anything rather

the fantastic shadows of birds in flight flitted across the long
      anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes
      “Yes, very well. I saw them the night before last.”
my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a
fetch you away.”
me. I meant to become her governess once more, but I soon found this
at most a year, was the period contemplated. One paternal kind
badly at present—in great trouble.”
did not seem to be in ill humour: she had gone away laughing. He stared

      It was to be such a secret!”
_He_.—“You like walking this way, Miss Henchard—and is it not so?”
appointment.”

life’s extremity as he was prepared to do cheerfully.
around what had happened to us together, and what had happened


      “Can I have the carriage?” said Jane.
with averted eyes. “There lay the sting o’t to me. If she had seen it
was an immediately perceptible vitality about her as if the nerves of
      him at Longbourn again, whenever his engagements might allow him
care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and
one and the selfsame form: What could he or she possibly be doing
“You are speaking about things you don’t understand, James. In the
Next morning the Scarecrow said to his friends:
branches on the other side.


“Gentlemen,” he said, “over and above the assets that we’ve been
literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago. And now, my dear young
inefficacious.
A quarter of an hour passed before lessons again began, during which
“She has promised to come on the twentieth.”


clerk), leave the church: there will be no wedding to-day.” The man
“No,” said he; “it is a long-cherished scheme, and the only one which
history of the wanderer you have harboured, as I can tell without
away together this morning at dawn. Suddenly I determined to leave her
hill at the same hour, and with the self-same trills, quavers, and
Even if he told them, would they believe it?
past or the future. The first was a page so heavenly sweet—so deadly
it? It will mock me some day—mock me horribly!” The hot tears welled
chair.
were doomed to be bereft of her, so it must be. In the situation which


“Helen!” I whispered softly, “are you awake?”
looks and gestures; the stranger fastened the bracelets on her arms and

the west reflected the tawny gold of a great bank of clouds. Nannie




look into the pool, and tell him what she saw.


“It came off,” someone explained.
Once Toto got too near the open trap door, and fell in; and at first
an evening together. That’s agreed now, isn’t it?”
to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured.

      whisper, not to be a simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham

“And do you like that monotonous theme?”

not say things like that. They are horrible, and they don’t mean
“A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment and told
flinging both on the floor, trampled on them.”
you no more than the sound of music. It has not marred you. You are

“Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good
      endeavour to get the better of it; advised her to return to bed,
might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
breeze, through the grounds. I covered my head and arms with the skirt

it inexpedient to break in on your mutual comfort till their
“You—have saved me!” she cried, as soon as she could speak.
here.”
my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints?


      heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature, by the testimony
to say. He threatens me—he continually threatens me with his own death,
      and on which there could be no difference of sentiment. Elizabeth
as he gazed upon the lowered eyes of his fair and slim antagonist.
King James, as one who was “caressed by the Court for his handsome

“Quite so,” answered the young lord. “It is the problem of slavery, and
down, and kill him like a dog. I swear it.”
acre of deep, pungent roses, and a snub-nosed motorboat that bumped
nursery. As we passed Mrs. Reed’s bedroom, she said, “Will you go in
a long time at Dorian Gray, and then for a long time at the picture,
freedom from levity of character, and the extreme simplicity of her
“Yes, but listen,” said Myrtle Wilson, nodding her head up and down,

de chambre coiffer et habiller les dames, et c’était si amusant: comme
“Had you ever experience of such a character, sir? Did you ever love
“Like all good reputations, Gladys,” interrupted Lord Henry. “Every

towards me. As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before
that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us. The body

secretary to the City Coroner. His new office made him professionally
reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail
caresses her dress, her breath, her fingers had given him. Then late
“I am anxious to get back to my aunt and uncle, for I am sure they will


passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry
I passed the bridge of Pélissier, where the ravine, which the river
of mine, and not a fault of yours.
believe he saw a thing.

      They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs.
“I’ll tell you a family secret,” she whispered enthusiastically.
      after Lady Catherine’s visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and,
“Compose yourself,” said Clerval, who observed my change of

      Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory; and she could not
whatever she was, was an enthusiast but there was a time for all
slipped here and there, and stumbled over the natural springes formed
the slopes lined with a gazing legion of Hadrian’s soldiery as if
      the alarm, set off from B. intending to trace their route. He did

dæmon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of
in asking favours of them—but I shall advertise.”
“But has he no peculiarities? What, in short, is his character?”

West Indian night; one of the description that frequently precede the
He opened the door, but she moved out from the circle of his arm.
“That must be a matter of opinion,” said the Tin Woodman. “For my part,
unseen hands of Cranstoun’s Goblin Page, celebrated in romantic lore.
“You said I could not unless I married you.”


white lily. Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory.
me.”
belonged to them, and was unable fully to penetrate their import. I was
broke upon and illumined his memory. He longed to recall to her those
When the Scotchman sang his voice had reached Henchard’s ears through

They got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing. The
cripple.”
“Why didn’t he ask you to arrange a meeting?”
to travel to the Land of the South and ask Glinda to help her. For, of
motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that
will come closer to the earth. You won’t? Let us go to the club, then.
“And made a good choice of an attendant for you in Alice Wood?”
towards me.
own as sweet as that of viol or of lute. Mere words! Was there anything
difficulty the words so replete with anguish. His fine and lovely eyes
“All’s well that ends well.”
He recommenced his walk, but soon again stopped, and this time just
at him and broke off all their stings against the tin, without hurting
as a Persian carpet and as unreal. But there is no literary public in
      Her father lifted up his eyes. Jane was distressed. Elizabeth
own, of which it appears nothing can cure her, and which is incident to
sand-traced effigy storms could wash away; it was a name graven on a
signalled us to draw up alongside.
is like Fielding: they talk of his wit, humour, comic powers. He


loss at sea a little later on solved a problem which had become torture
“What does He say?”
attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was



vague reminiscences of her own bridal days: but on what might have
      wondered why, without violently caring for her, he chose to elope
      his manners recommended him to everybody. Whatever he said, was
      About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not
painted feet, as though the thing had dripped—blood even on the hand
He’s a clever chap, too, with the pen. Do you remember that thing he


operations.
slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of
“She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said,” answered the little
      Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming

But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and

“But why not?”

      impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side
indulgence, but to render them hardy, patient, self-denying. Should any


I had wakened the glow: his features beamed.
“No doubt of it; it is nothing serious; he is nervous, his spirits must
penalty of the law, less innocent than poor Justine had been. Such were my
issue from their chambers. I could not proceed to the schoolroom
bent over a book, they looked thoughtful almost to severity. A stand
      Miss Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income


      steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly,

and pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestras which set the rhythm of
nose and very cold ears pushed in the door. He walked over quickly to
“We shall think you what you prove yourself to be, my child. Continue
      person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked him
remarked once, in a discussion on the subject, and there is possibly a
The sharp reprimand was not lost upon her, and in time it came to pass
“Jane, what are you doing?”
principles on some points are eccentric.”
      probably never looked at _you_ in his life! It is admirable!”

“Let us make a chair with our hands and carry her,” said the Scarecrow.
      sensible nor agreeable; his society was irksome, and his
trees and a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earth
“Geneva, May 12th, 17—.”
be expected to know? What advantages had she? None. She could write her
cruelty has extinguished, might look as looked that sightless Samson.
that no Newson could love her as he loved her, or would tend her to his
twigs of the leafless cherry-tree nailed against the wall near the
crock, sufficiently polished round the rim to show that it was made of
      Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and

“Very soon, my—that is, Miss Eyre: and you’ll remember, Jane, the first
many-keyed commotion, but I felt an unpleasantness in the air, a
“But look here, John,” said Mr O’Connor. “Why should we welcome the
      her at all, till late in the evening, when she had the comfort of

corrupt. Country people have no opportunity of being either, so they
a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel. The
gain no sound of the sailor’s name. As money was short with him he
Seeing that all were ready to start she shepherded them to the door,
They came to a grizzled church, whose massive square tower rose


Villona and a neatly groomed young man named Doyle. Ségouin was in good
animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me. The mild

were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted

It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady Narborough, who
I cleared and steadied my voice to reply: “All is changed about me,
the cold winter wind had brought with it clouds so sombre, and a rain
“I mean the present gentleman, Mr. Edward’s father,” he explained. I
to light Wilson’s suspicions of his wife I thought the whole tale


adventure taken from old fairy tales and other ballads; or (as at a
forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already
      certainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by
skirt tucked up through her pocket hole. She carried a loaf under her
smile. Square-built men showed a tendency to become hunchbacks; men
sleep upon her eyelids, and exhibiting a generally refreshed air.
speak to you again as long as I live. I am quite serious. I don’t offer

felt before, less weary of his life, less vanquished in spirit. He

“Do, old sport.”
swore; the solitary life he led during the years which followed. “I
rather this morning, I was dancing till two o’clock. The ——th regiment

solitude was my only consolation—deep, dark, deathlike solitude.
“Gentlemen, you hear! Now which of you most resembles Bothwell?” cried
to the back door. But all the rest of that’s a God damned lie. Daisy
one’s life. I suppose you think me awfully foolish about it?”
      that my sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before
      apologise.”
travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant’s breakfast in a
dumb carcasses of beasts, could scarce covet shelter in the commonplace

      the present plan, were to go no farther northwards than
      lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte
      friendly; on his side even more. His present pursuit could not
to reflect; I must pack up my chemical instruments, and for that purpose I

      she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.
hungry:—I have ordered that a lunch of bread and cheese shall be served
it reached the house drifting up the side in bright vines as though
alarmed anyone. But they knew then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a
month, but at an indefinite future period.
      brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people’s
      ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham. I
“And was that it?” said my aunt. “I heard something....”

      considering it with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to
talking.”
      was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where

struck him in a new light, then, without further remark, went out of
he said,
to attend Petty Sessions, being still a magistrate for the year by
the fortune that has accrued to them.”

within my reach; a fondness for some of my studies, and a desire to
central plain, on the treeless hills, falling softly upon the Bog of

severed the air arrested me. Mrs. Fairfax had said Mr. Rochester
the tales told here about matrimony, Mr. Rochester has been favoured
“Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends. It was
could not bear your doing either of those two things. If you wish me

affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its
I shook my head: I could not see how poor people had the means of being
“Conscience and cowardice are really the same things, Basil. Conscience
strolled along Stephen’s Green in a faint cloud of aromatic smoke. They

“My Maker and yours, who will never destroy what He created. I rely


returned. He, however, answered mildly, “I would willingly afford you
“It would to obey you.”


(touching his watch-guard). “Yes, bonny wee thing, I’ll wear you in my
      nothing else to do.”
So she called the Winkies to help her, and they walked all that day and
a regular dinner, which often happened, she would give us a large piece

“Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.”
      leading to the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that

business. Everybody I knew was in the bond business, so I supposed it

that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand

They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and
      with walking to the window and pretending not to hear. In a
      still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious
then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted

      their progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to
come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of
“Yes.”
be uneducated, to grow up like one of the poor women I saw sometimes
The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.
me because I was afraid the man would think I was as stupid as Mahony.
who had found little that it was necessary to whisper about in this
our energies seem to demand a sustenance they cannot get—when our will
downstairs and demanded of Mrs. Fairfax some occupation: the weekly
“How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry! In the present

the bill you’d of thought she had my appendicitis out.”
gaze at her).
in surprise.

so I also will go with her to the Land of the South.”
dark.”
did not think me handsome. The contrast struck me at the time and—”

not alone either. I don’t know how many of the fine people at the Leas
than he.
following:—

better people; possessed of ideas and views you never entertained in
among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty. But it was
      not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same
that same drawing-room, dressed in black, his silk hat on his knees.
“But I know he’s there.”

“I cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding,”
it, and shaking the money out upon the table beside the watch. The
professional man’s, but ready in their large plump hands.
interfere.”
philosophy in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow
was long after ten o’clock and yet there was no sign of Gabriel and his
dared not enter it. My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so
when the curious mixture of romance and thrift in the young man’s
Julia’s face and the tears which had risen to Aunt Kate’s eyes,
cannot tell. That depends upon another; and he is a man, and a
me to India a girl of nineteen, unless she be married to me? How can we
      private seminaries in town, had a fortune of twenty thousand
both. It seems terrible to me now that they should ever be found
      “I am sick of Mr. Bingley,” cried his wife.
honourable in ye; but keep it. What do you say, neighbours—do ye
burnt on, however, quite steadily, neither receding nor advancing. “Is
      see them on the very day of her arrival at Pemberley, for she had
at six o’clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.

      Miss Lucas’s persevering, however, she added, “Very well; if it
He was silent for a moment. The pebbles of the drive crunched under
stay there a fortnight longer.”
that this new generation, educated or hypereducated as it is, will lack
But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our
matter of her handwriting. She was passing the dining-room door one
During this interval, even Adèle was seldom sent for to his presence,
of it. He’s been drinking since Friday.”

      she did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively
I am sorry I sat for it. The memory of the thing is hateful to me. Why
down and concave field. The mass became gradually dissected by the


“Thank you, Jane. As I said, I shall return from Cambridge in a
To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.
      “You begin to comprehend me, do you?” cried he, turning towards
morning, Thornton?” he said, taking up a pen.
      and love you.”
who has been captured by an idea.
“Ah,” he said, “you may say what you like. There’s no woman like the
“First met with father here? Yes, you have told me so before. And now
wives, or something tedious. You know what I mean—middle-class virtue
      “They battled it together for a long time, which was more than
“Don’t do it today,” Gatsby answered. He turned to me apologetically.
“You are mistaken,” said he. “I will exert myself, and if
reason than to the imagination; but now misery has come home, and men
      “And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of
procured; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance.
Scatcherd from a history class, and sent to stand in the middle of the
could see the Dodder.
“Rat! Rat!” and bellowed out aloud. Aid was near him: Eliza and

This document remained locked in my drawer all day: after tea, I asked
scene and thought of life; and (as always happened when he thought of
blue eyes in wonder.
“I heard you, but I’d like to know when.”


      all money matters were then to receive the last finish.
leaves, and the Atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty; my heart,

I and Adèle shall be both safe out of the house before your bride
returning that parcel to her in person. What could be inside it? So he
masks. Then, suddenly, time stopped for him. Yes: that blind,
I have not much pride under such circumstances: I would always rather
the consultation which followed each scene: I see Mr. Rochester turn to
While she was threading her way back across the room Mrs Malins,



a room hung with rows of the queen’s devices in cut black velvet upon
      to whom he owes his preferment. I cannot acquit him of that duty;
portrait. He would seek to dominate him—had already, indeed, half done

      his gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness
my lips.
picture.
before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; “thus I take from
Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish
after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I lounged in
ears had heard its name on a hundred occasions.
“Come on,” she urged. “I’ll telephone my sister Catherine. She’s said


sake. But what did that amount to? She might be here to-morrow, and in
which I feared yet did not understand. I admired virtue and good
Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips, the two
      entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all
Diana and Mary’s general answer to this question was a sigh, and some
She was walking on before him with Mr Bartell D’Arcy, her shoes in a


nice with her. I was got rather uneasy; but all is as it should be, and
as silent as it was dark, except that from the rectangular avenues
the forest. The house presented two pointed gables in its front; the
      insolent. She has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and
mockery; and I was desolate and abandoned—my life dark, lonely,
Afterward he kept looking at the child with surprise. I don’t think he
to-day as you were twenty years ago. Ah! let me be happy for ever!”
ministers of vengeance, to aid and conduct me in my work. Let the cursed
house.—Yours,

social principles.
perhaps: he has travelled a great deal, and seen a great deal of the
He paused.
      voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he
and impulses, and he yielded gracefully. He liked Henchard’s warmth,
studied investments and securities for a conscientious hour. There
long as there was a chance of keeping me for yourself by doing so. But
wandered away: always repelled by the consciousness of having no claim
      your understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home;
“Was that a paradox?” asked Mr. Erskine. “I did not think so. Perhaps

phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips—it was really very
      Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was
      “You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely
length discovered the open country. A great fall of snow had taken
He handed a package in brown paper, sealed. Henchard had been as good
to each villain his own vice; and mine is not a tendency to indirect

      man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited that
noiselessly for fully half a minute. Then he said:

“Mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening,” remarked Eliza. I soon
vanity itself might have woven; these, I repeat, must be cut off; think
      experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present
      pleasure in talking of her master and his sister.
inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild beast’s den—a
deliberately at last, with the air of one who could not catch his
      manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can scarcely
and then we shall get more money than we do now.”
“Tell us,” said Mahony pertly to the man, “how many have you yourself?”
credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the
quicker way than to watch—to be a “waker,” as the country-people call
      two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his
“I can’t believe it. Dorian is far too sensible.”
moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him. After all, what right

      of it all, and said that business with his steward had occasioned
a great and sudden change. The sun might shine or the clouds might lower,
height of summer. Here I fell twice; but as often I rose and rallied my
time when the town avenues were deserted as the avenues of Karnac.

concluded with a panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I


“Then is there any house to let—a little small new cottage just a

      grave; her daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.
“And a little depressed,” he said. “What about? Tell me.”
“You shall tell me this part of the story another time,” I said; “but
“Yes, of course,” answered Lord Henry, sinking into a chair and slowly

“What nonsense you talk!” said Lord Henry, smiling, and taking Hallward
Blackmoor Vale, and at four o’clock lanterns were moving about the
a few minutes the vehicle disappeared with him.
lit a cigarette and then threw it away. His eyelids drooped till the

      I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well—and,
      ask of the former. My father is going to London with Colonel
      me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me
low-ceiled, oaken chamber of the second storey: there she sat and

“Excuse me. I will rejoin you later.”
whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks. I feel quite sure of
took place, and soon, so overwhelming was the grief that seized me, I

      taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe, united.”
      and so, passing through Meryton, thought she might as well call
      “They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It was not

moderate than this?”
find me, cruelly sent him away with a wicked invention of my death,

      to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the
sample-bags; men of extensive stomachs, sloping like mountain sides;

The girl’s lips quivered. “Thirty-five mile!” she murmured. “Ah! ’tis
soft rope of her hair tossed from side to side.
      civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though
sweetness. He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when
my box in the ostler’s care, did I slip away from the George Inn, about
ladies.”
that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval, my friend and dearest

“Is the luggage brought down?”
“The Lord have mercy on his soul!” said my aunt.
to his seat. “Let her go! If she’s up to such vagaries she must suffer
“And do you mean to say,” asked Mr Browne incredulously, “that a chap
Henchard, as was natural, dealt largely with this nursery or bed of
      possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place,
night-time. On the first of these occasions, she perpetrated the


She indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all.
      often as he chose while he continued in the neighbourhood,
dowagers, Lady Lynn and Lady Ingram, confabulate together. Sir

“Where are you going?” demanded Gatsby in immediate alarm.

Main Street ministering to it, and contiguous to absolutely nothing.
Then a strange thing happened.
“No, ma’am—oh, no! No one is living there. I suppose you are a stranger
Miss Miller signed to me to sit on a bench near the door, then walking
      before he is cold in his grave, and if you are not kind to us,
“No, indeed. I don’t know anything. You see, I am stuffed, so I have no
just out of the army and covered over with medals he got in the war.
peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds. My heart, which was
Julia wandered slowly into the room, looking behind her at something.
“No, thank you.”

every enticement that wealth placed in my path. Oh, that some encouraging
and when the first class could take in what was required of them, they
successfully. He wondered if he had asked her yet or if he would leave
who had found me almost dying at his threshold was my blood relation.

popular in his own country.
that Lucetta no longer bore towards Henchard all that warm allegiance

“Yes.”
horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers. There was blood on the
The hospitalities of the morning were repeated, and when they were over

should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her, tears, the first I
depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my
immense slaughter. Or, no. He was not to go to the gold-fields at all.
“And you promised to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.
cornfield.”
beauty was so great that Gayelette loved him dearly, and hastened to
on the Andes could, twice in succession, send out such a yell from the
“Yes, sir. He looks as if he had been a sort of sailor; tattooed on
modest, Stubberd; or else leave it alone!” Turning to the woman, “Now
      to their situation in life. When my niece Georgiana went to
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.
ran to the hall, seized my books and followed her. I kept her brown
waistcoat or a trousers—moya! But Tricky Dicky’s little old father

it was twenty miles off, on the borders of another county; but what was
      long.”
“Oh, some whim of the poor soul’s. Now get a bit of paper and draw up a
about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes. Sitting down at the
      again. But their father, though very laconic in his expressions
a violent death!
the thoughts, they are elfish. These eyes in the Evening Star you must
“Ay, now, I’m wearying you!” he exclaimed.
“O, Mr D’Arcy,” said Aunt Kate, “now that was a great fib to tell.”
      you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
deep, strong sob.
confidentially, “I don’t mind my legs and arms and body being stuffed,
fashion. Why, you have saved my life!—snatched me from a horrible and
is not another city in all the world that is ruled by a stuffed man.”
“Madam,” he pursued, “I have a Master to serve whose kingdom is not of
of the gathering darkness, wavered tragically for a moment, and then
      did Mrs. Bennet give up the point. She talked to Elizabeth again
and the pallor of Weathers’ complexion changed to peony. Their hands
      But on returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was
grew indistinct. One was to Harry; the other was to her father. Ernest
announced that he had a way of finding out whom the yellow car
XX.
Then he remembered the lamp. It was a rather curious one of Moorish



      to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your
“So could I—with a roast onion. Come, we’ll go down.” They went.
news, and withdrawing its attention, went on labouring and victualling,


was sober and was bullied by him when he was drunk. They had five


Chapter 14
      the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible that the authority
the magic words. The Monkeys were as prompt as ever, and in a few
always had a tricky little black bottle up in a corner. Do you mind

      of her fine eyes.”


the desk lay a manuscript translation of Hauptmann’s _Michael Kramer_,
merino cloak, a black beaver bonnet; neither of them half fine enough
Saturday evenings when my aunt went marketing I had to go to carry some
with her and, leaving her at a table, sauntered about, chatting with
the unhappy hereabout usually chose the bridges for their meditations
she murmured. “You are acting.”
surprises, and though to her, a total stranger, his request must have

Miss Eyre, to strike a young gentleman, your benefactress’s son! Your
past gaiety, and aspirations after dissipations to come. She passed
the thunder of the ground sea, which threatened my destruction. But
advance in experience. This is legitimate, _et j’y tiens_, as Adèle
as usual for another month.”

for its interlocutor. That feature too is propitious.
And where does he now exist? Is this gentle and lovely being lost
“Your stepfather saved her?”
For a time these arrangements worked well, it being the custom to truss


It was near: and as I had lifted no petition to Heaven to avert it—as I
      be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him
from his pocket and laid it on the table; then his purse—the yellow
entirely, and receive a commission in addition to salary.”

and tucked in without an envelope, in the old-fashioned way, she had
of the previous evening. He came back a few steps, Donald Farfrae
better soon, no doubt.”
question for Newson himself than for him.
      Mr. Gardiner added in his letter, that they might expect to see
contracting parties. He, however, was too inexperienced, too
shrank from having anything to do with the ground-floor serving, and
“Yes.”
Right, bar approach to me,
intellect.”

that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended.
Corley had already thrown one leg over the chains when Lenehan called
much in her power, that even when she lifted her hand against his life,

The Cowardly Lion

The Scarecrow went in and found the little man sitting down by the
loved her affection better than his own honour? Among the many
      be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment, unless
of which is exquisitely beautiful, graceful, fascinating—I experience
door on them and came down the single step, his eyes avoiding the
the pail, which was now partly filled with milk. As she walked along,
The lamplights now glimmered through the engirdling trees, conveying a
Basil Hallward looking at him. Yet he felt he could not stay. The
“God knows that,” replied the man who had seen high life. “He’s without
daughter of Paris, and amuse yourself with disembowelling it,” said the
      pleasantly; but his cousin, after having addressed a slight
room. Her husband called out to her:
      understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing

plans to destroy these strangers had failed; but she was a powerful
      How differently did everything now appear in which he was
      have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for
“Soon, sir?”
her peace with him; try to do something to render his life less that of
      nothing more was heard of his return.
is going to turn out.” Then he said good-bye to them all in a cheerful
hitherto used—
      at conversation on either side. Miss Bingley saw all this

      soothed, but it could not console her for the contempt which had
It was not so high as the first, however, and by standing upon the

street when we both were there.” He was wondering if her embarrassment
things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to wonder
      she could not overlook, and to banish from her thoughts that

them with Adèle;—you” (glancing at me) “resume your seat, and answer my
He caught himself up at the question and glanced nervously round the
everybody in Casterbridge, living in such a gazebo over the centre and
as it were the bell-board on which all the adjacent hamlets and
appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I
      only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a
otherwise, or put myself in his way at all; for I’ve already in my
do. At his word the band flew down and seized Quelala, carried him in
are stationed there since the riots; and the officers are the most
“What tale do you like best to hear?”
eight-fifteen. He opened _The St. James’s_ languidly, and looked
besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my
James Vane hesitated for a moment, not understanding what was meant.
shelter to betake myself to:” but I stopped, feeling it would not do to
woe,” I alleged: “that I have wakened out of most glorious dreams, and
When we came in she held us silent for a moment with a lifted hand.
“Not at all,” said Mr Power.
trying to evade.
“Well, well; usage is everything in these matters.”

_Lux in Tenebris_, I think—_Light in Darkness_.”
      influence. That he had been concerned in the measures taken to
      him to talk, she made some slight observation on the dance. He

      and I am sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first
“But you can’t get her there; there is no road to the moon: it is all
hard, plain face: any apparition less romantic or less ghostly could
“Mary, I have been married to Mr. Rochester this morning.” The
“Have you known Gatsby for a long time?” I inquired.
of her; and thirdly—it will out!—whether it were such as I should fancy

“You see, we may as well all admit we’re a nice collection of


Hotel. He was now idly reading a copy of the local paper, and was
sort—some low notes on the silver string of each fiddle, then a
senses but the soul.”
“Why isn’t it your business?” asked Mrs Kearney. “Didn’t you yourself
      This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was
mind to harness him like a horse, and make him work.”
know what it is. Don’t look so sulky. Surely you should be glad to
      recollections will intrude which cannot, which ought not, to be
“But why are you come?” I could not forbear saying.
envelopes of tissue paper, she merely exclaimed—

kindling—no life quickening—no voice counselling or cheering. Oh, I

time the unlighted country without strangely solitary and vacant in
“Say, ‘What do you want, Master Reed?’” was the answer. “I want you to

Almost any exhibition of complete self-sufficiency draws a stunned
degraded herself; she had degraded him. He saw the squalid tract of her
“O, the room is all right,” replied Gabriel. “I’ve taken one in the
you know why we left Chicago? I’m surprised that they didn’t treat you

them. The Americans are an extremely interesting people. They are
      happiness, and immediately wrote as follows:
out a cursing whistle behind us. “You follow me to the south side of
“Oh!” which the happy and busy Donald was too far off to hear.
      help in fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the
surprise, were moist at the scene.
time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the
and Mrs Donnelly said there was port wine too in the house if she would
“Foolish child! foolish child!” was the parrot-phrase flung in answer.

for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like a big

other trees. The path, as you ascend higher, is intersected by ravines
“Why, I guess so,” Dorothy answered. “It would be as easy as to give

which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate,
consignor held out for six shillings; and in the end the six shillings
was silenced.
indoors waiting for the time to pass till his return, her face being
“You have got a new muff, Elizabeth,” he said to her one day quite
“There is only one thing we can do,” returned the Lion, “and that is to
but this morning we were obliged to dispense with the ceremony of
acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race. As I spoke, a
compared with that arch of blue air to which I had been looking up, and

Arms, where the morning coach which had brought him waited half-an-hour
“And fasten the door securely on the inside. Wake Sophie when you go
think about. There has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since
your task from hour to hour; stand by you always; help you from moment
required the special genius of Christopher Coney, Solomon Longways,

settle the matter. When he reported these dialogues he aspirated the
broken bread collected, the sugar and butter safe under lock and key,

revolving on a pivot. He kept the pair in view until he had seen them
amusement. I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well
      ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I
watching over me, perceiving my restlessness, awoke me; the dashing waves
lost a great deal of money by a man he had trusted turning bankrupt;
though close to the turnpike-road, crimes might be perpetrated there
the mad lady, who was as cunning as a witch, would take the keys out of
science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a
meagre meal. The flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the
      all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology,”
out in a sort of official, nasal voice:—
them. Mary would sit and watch me by the hour together: then she would


Hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror.

flavour of his drink. “It’s not so beautiful, you know. Of course, it
unwillingly to danger, and I must return.”
      thirdly—which perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it
she released her hand from his grasp. Mr Browne extended his open hand
to frame any answer! Children can feel, but they cannot analyse their
dark and low, were interesting from their air of antiquity. The
phantoms.
looking at a little way off.
gall of envy rose within me.
Henchard had already heard that High-Place Hall was being prepared for
And a tray was soon brought. How pretty, to my eyes, did the china cups

“No, you are all wrong,” said the little man meekly. “I have been
back. But the sin was there; even his sense of honour told him that
many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices, surrounded by



following its course beside the stream till the dark shapes of the Ten
Rash, the last Duke of Burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped
with a gentleman that ye know nothing of—and that’s travelled a’most
could not unlove him now, merely because I found that he had ceased to

carried; the want provided for; the suffering endured; the
I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt. I had before

name of some maleficent and sinful being. It filled me with fear, and
round and try and find out how they’re getting on. They won’t suspect

impression made on me by her nursery tales. She was pretty too, if my
move, remember, or call any one.”

“How well you read me, you witch!” interposed Mr. Rochester: “but what
“I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,” he continued. “Mrs. Claud
There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the
      But vanity, not love, has been my folly. Pleased with the
hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood. I followed speedily, I
always starts screaming like that. I tell her she ought to leave it
heavy dirty eyes leered at the company in token that he understood he
morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which
      of his second speech, and at the end of it he only made him a
“Deceit is not my fault!” I cried out in a savage, high voice.


herself among the fortunate she did not cease to wonder at the
      to be alone, and fearful of enquiries or hints from her uncle and
“Father, have you any objection to my going away?” she asked.
They make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with,
The difference of accent, the excitability of the singer, the intense

      so great an evil to my friend as to me. But there were other

He jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm. “Show him to me. Which

“How do you know?—how can you guess all this, sir?”
I have been drunk just twice in my life, and the second time was that
While I was eagerly glancing at the bright pages of “Marmion” (for
is Miss Templeman.... Are they gone—on the other side?”

account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterwards ruled my
shuddering sigh, and taking me in his arms, carried me downstairs. At
squabble upstairs.”

“Can’t they?”
increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which
good-bye she clapped the heels of her shoes together three times,
      divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can. But these,
chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood. Not one
A Martinmas summer of Mrs. Henchard’s life set in with her entry into
“The road is straight to the South,” he answered, “but it is said to be
and to that without anchoring on his features—as gaily dressed women’s
apparel it contained; which, at this evening hour—nine o’clock—gave out
advertise it in the Casterbridge paper—that’s the way they do it. She
went back to the coach that had brought me, and took passage onward
to me hopelessly dull; and, at first sight, all dull alike: but I soon

spirit, wonderful_; but I did not then understand the signification
train it; but now you know that it is the illegitimate offspring of a
“Run fast,” said the Scarecrow to the Lion, “and get out of this deadly
      The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this
XXII.
      get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down
semi-sarcastic attentions of the other—Eliza did not mortify, nor


wrench the coping off and throw it down the river, in reckless defiance


beautiful either, and perhaps Mr. Rochester approves you: at any rate,
      his declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of
let the firelight shine free on his pale brow and cheek as pale, where

      On reaching the spacious lobby above they were shown into a very
tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background, so I


advanced.
“I don’t know that I’ve not the right. At any rate I have the excuse.
As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my progress
anything important. I warn you of incredulity beforehand. Go on.”
the afternoon of every Sunday a large contingent of the Casterbridge

like to speak to you alone.”
      _you_, Lizzy; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner.

new and of superior tone; also an easel for painting and a pair of
make out what you are talking about. Oh! Harry, I am quite vexed with

true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one
the creditors were leaving. The appearance of Elizabeth threw him into
should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my
      Lydia exclaimed. Other books were produced, and after some
lived in the sick-room, never quitting it except to snatch a few hours’
during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest
get them all once more enclosed in their separate dormitories. I did
“She was a warm-hearted, home-spun woman. She was not what they call
blended, became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. And,
snowed fast, a drift was already forming against the lower panes;
dim and mighty archangel fitly set before you! The line is worth a
      To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not

“You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?”
called to see Elizabeth. Lucetta at the window watched him threading
thankful that he had left her to herself for the evening, and sat down

      please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and

five years’ taxes on all the neighbouring cottages if the owners would
objection to own him as a father-in-law, intimate they could never be.
surprise was obvious. The result of this casual rencounter was that the
and immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress—I felt that I
in the picture?”

“I like to observe all the faces and all the figures.”
brace came suddenly into the air. We drew in deep breaths of it as we
Henchard, and for him alone, she was for the moment confounded.
considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated; but I
harmonium beside the coloured print of the promises made to Blessed

      was under frequent discussion between her parents. Elizabeth saw
in, of course.”
“No.”
      yourself and Mr. Bennet the compliment of requesting you to

A vague terror seized Gabriel at this answer as if, at that hour when
beauty came on him like a revelation. He had never felt it before.
to make the most of her victory. Henchard, however, said nothing about
to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of the
washed my face, and put on my clothes by the light of a half-moon just


an impression on me that I swore, there and then, that I’d drink
locks a crown of jewels. Growing from her shoulders were wings,
“Tonight, perhaps...?”
an over-expenditure of sympathy, I would suggest that we should appeal
really mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me that you liked your

the globe, however!”
side to side. His head was large, globular and oily; it sweated in all
is all. How can you say such horrible things? You don’t know what you

these: “Well—I’m obliged to ’ee for listening. I may tell more about
so now when he was about to stake the greater part of his substance! It
for meditation: a monitor, a great rough girl, presently came up,

The kind whisper went to my heart like a dagger.
Still bright on clouds of suffering dim
And thus Henchard found himself again on the precise standing which he
of life.”
it, he wondered. He went towards the little, pearl-coloured octagonal
joints would not be rusted. At the same time her own tears fell thick
old-fashioned even to Casterbridge eyes.


“It’s her, I am sure!—I could have told her anywhere!” cried the
sound of the watchman—was broken in Elizabeth’s ear only by the
“But it is not a foolish errand, nor an idle one,” replied the

treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and

life was shortened by trouble.” And then a spasm constricted her mouth
it ‘Blanche, an accomplished lady of rank.’
      “Something very much to the purpose of course. He begins with
      Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know

      deep in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been
was just then suffering. She was one of those people whom nothing
know?”
conjectured, by his longer voyage, he entreated me to bestow as much of
my happiness—I will make yours.”
perpendicular ascent of Mont Salêve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the
      their own room, Jane, taking out the letter, said:

and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to
“Melted! Well, that is good news, indeed,” said the man. “Who melted
of science an expected and fully understood crisis in a patient’s

Johnstone were invited to take tea with some friends at Lowton last
with the companion you bestow, I will quit the neighbourhood of man and
      from pressing her; but Mr. Collins could not conceal his
the Antient Concert Rooms. She brought him into the drawing-room, made
He pointed at himself and family with a wave of the hand intended to
rejoinder. “Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them,
after day, no such characters as those he described had anywhere been
and to say that he had left his property to his brother the clergyman’s
embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenth-century
wicked people were always very old and very ugly. What a laugh she
unmaidenly, and unwise. True, that for reasons best known to herself,
liberalism. He said that if ever he found a boy talking to girls or
passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was
by-road on her right hand descended from the fields into the highway at
      The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their
      her mind by extensive reading.”


(it was all I had), I put in my pocket: I tied on my straw bonnet,
      I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse
“I have formed no supposition on the subject, sir; but I want to go on
was unassuming and spoke little. He said _yous_ so softly that it


extended, was made so wide as to reach nearly round her waist. She
not innate caprice he was more and more certain. Her windows gleamed as
     MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS

Walton, _in continuation._
satisfactory: a private fear had haunted me, that in thus acting for
      wife.
the road. Here the noise of trams, the lights and the crowd released


former triumphs. Farfrae, to whom he was still a comparative stranger,

with ignorant contempt for those who have endured them. But that is not
“You are quite right, I am sure,” said Diana. “Now do, brother, let her
elbowed his way through the gay throng to the shop of Woolfrey, the
I took up my muff and walked on. The incident had occurred and was gone
supped in a snug room lit by electric candle-lamps. They talked volubly
“I am in residence,” she said, “and comfortable, though getting here
down the alley, but hearing footsteps approaching in that quarter, and
“I want to see you, too.”
“Open two bottles of stout, Jack,” said Mr O’Connor.
                           Table of Contents
      you must have gone through!”
flow, such as excited my wonder, while it baffled my comprehension. I



I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when
be spared to discover the villain.”
“I’d like to know who he is and what he does,” insisted Tom. “And I
but followed him as his shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of
where the trees and branches grew so thick over the road that the
      he done his duty in that respect, Lydia need not have been
Fairfax’s warnings, and the damp of her doubts were upon me: something
rule; your air was often diffident, and altogether that of one refined
“My dear boy, no woman is a genius. Women are a decorative sex. They
inn-passage: a man was standing by the open door, and in the lamp-lit
fire, which had burnt out its flame, though its mass of cinder still

      and Mrs. Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were
the great services he had rendered to agricultural science and
Meanwhile Henchard was sitting up, thinking over his jealous folly in
to the parish. This was Mixen Lane, now in great part pulled down.

value as a second pair of eyes, which should be used in places where
Emerald City. So my good luck is all due to her, and I shall never
He set to his supper and took no part in the conversation with which
other? My name is Henchard, ha’n’t you replied to an advertisement for
      you have supported this extraordinary application have been as
      was to have as little trouble in the business as possible. When
      You are not going to be _missish_, I hope, and pretend to be
you!’ But if I hadn’t met Chester, he’d of got me sure.”
“Quite sure.”
return from church.”
Get their names only: no attack or interruption.”
      have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is

unaccountable to her. Lucetta explained the matter somewhat by saying
seemed laden with spices. A bee flew in and buzzed round the
“Of course. And now, sir, to reward you for the accurate guess, I will
“No, old sport.”
      say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble
      got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter. And then we

      which, for Charlotte’s sake, she made more favourable than it
As he closed the door behind him, Dorian Gray touched the bell, and in
“I feel so astonished,” she began, “I hardly know what to say to you,
into prominence upon his shoulders, and he could bring himself to show
policemen and its fine arts to impresarios?

wildness of Lucetta’s features was growing yet more rigid and wild with
very good for her.”
place of sepulture. Mrs. Henchard’s dust mingled with the dust of women

In uttering these words I looked up: he seemed to me a tall gentleman;

the adventitious authority of his voice set the key for the newspaper
suicide. Now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist.


domestic manners it described, combined with lofty sentiments and
      his book, and would not even look at her.
and succeeded in opening and shutting, without noise, two doors, I
while her silent mother mused on other things than topography. “It is
Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking. I
name of Newson—in pursuance of their plan—was in the upper or western

taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution. When she
      when am I to wish you joy?”
as he spoke.

      back the praise on her sister’s warm affection.
London was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several

manifestations.”
“What is all this?” demanded another voice peremptorily; and Mrs. Reed
was in decline, they said, or something like that. I never knew
      formed a curious dialogue, and was exactly in unison with her
The effort of answering broke the rhythm of his rocking—for a moment
book and said, “Ah! Cornelius Agrippa! My dear Victor, do not waste
same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also
that Jay Gatsby of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic


returns in memory at this moment.
      treat the matter as you do now.”
opened it. As he read it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back
with words. That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature. The
as an ornament of the conservatory—where it usually stood, surrounded
“Come, be silent, Richard, and never mind her gibberish: don’t repeat
away from home.
lapse of sentences on the one part, and loss of favour and expulsion


The moon was set, and it was very dark; Bessie carried a lantern, whose
to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my heart.
with my whole fortune as the price of its accommodation. Once more on
little finger.
Lord Henry languidly.
of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his
weakness. It is the feet of clay that make the gold of the image
reunion in Mrs Mooney’s front drawing-room. The music-hall _artistes_
“To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of
little dance with Elizabeth-Jane—an old country thing, the only one she
remained to tea. During the entertainment Elizabeth was carefully
“By the church, sir, of all the horrible places in the world!—I caught
unendurable.
indecorously, as if the concert were an informal dress rehearsal. Mr
everybody was interested, and some few guessed the end. It was, in some
I’m sorry I had to put a patch on your breast, but it really couldn’t
policeman rode alongside.
      She then proceeded to enquire into the measures which her father
ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had
      When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she
he was in reality still possessed to the full by the new idea, whatever
labours for his race; he clears their painful way to improvement; he
      neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Perhaps her thoughts had been running with his. Perhaps she had felt

      to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his
 out.
front, saw what it was, and was terrified; and then her interest in the
turned sharply from the window and, leaning forward, tapped on the
purpose. As a matter of fact this was not true, but it had its result;


faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who
      as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she
      thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to
came upon the young Parisian so early in his life, and was occasioned
“I thought you asked Dorothy to kill the Witch,” said the Scarecrow, in
of me just now. You think me an unfeeling, loose-principled rake: don’t
bread.”
“Ay! Then, Miss Newson, ye had better say nothing about this hoax, and
as he thought it, and curiosity to learn if there were any weak sides
      together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so frightened I did

Farther off were hills: not so lofty as those round Lowood, nor so
my perversity, and allowed so long a space for reflection and
intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies. I
refreshment anywhere. Mosquitoes came buzzing in and hummed sullenly
waistcoat and breeches, and tanned leather leggings, with a basin of
peasantry in this matter was so intense as to be almost unrealizable in
been booked. Could she still draw back after all he had done for her?
before I should begin to address cordial remarks to the passersby.
“There I, humble as I am, can give you the aid you want: I can set you
      in my side and pains in my head, and such beatings at heart, that
extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear


proceed on his way by the front door. This was barred, and while the
care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly
letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
      Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains
      another letter of thanks.
      militia.
that she enjoyed standing under an opposite archway merely to think
expressed. Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was
there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets
face of each by turns. “I said to myself, ay, a hundred times, when I
He comes in last: I am not looking at the arch, yet I see him enter. I

say, is now on a sick bed; from which, considering the nature of his

companionship of a book, which she read by the dim glare of the embers.
institution. I remained an inmate of its walls, after its regeneration,
“It is written in letters, not figures,—twenty thousand.”

      mine to swell my song.”
began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation, and this
Archangel.


demand to see the Great Oz.”
it with a Tyrian-dyed curtain, now looped up. Mounting to it by two
hill and disappear beyond its brow; and then retired to my own room,
solitude I had passed beneath its roof! All sad feelings seemed now
He watched the distant highway expecting to see Newson return on foot,
      upon Maria; and as Elizabeth saw no occasion for making it a
away with us to the wood, where we each chose the spot we liked best,
mine.”
chasms. The passions may rage furiously, like true heathens, as they
bitter hour cannot be described: in truth, “the waters came into my
“And I am a hard woman,—impossible to put off.”
and this I am sure he did not by malice, but on principle.


wonder that I survive what I have endured. I will confide this tale of
vivacity and fluency gone, I was fain to sit on a stool at Diana’s
most polite to me. Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and
      and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth.”
Farfrae knew of his dealings (though he did not guess their intended
      Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given
unfit to live, without any strength of purpose, an easy prey to habits,
      dance a reel at all—and now despise me if you dare.”
      steadily opposed the scheme. It should not be said that the Miss
He moistened his upper lip by running his tongue along it. The
approaching, for, taking the candle, it retreated to the door. Just at
then she dreamed she was in Kansas, where Aunt Em was telling her how

      fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
“Independent! What do you mean, Jane?”

the still determination of Henchard’s mien.
      the commission of the peace of the county, she was a most active
uttering each word distinctly, calmly, steadily, but not loudly—
should strike back again very hard; I am sure we should—so hard as to

glancing from the corner of her eye, “’Tis the funniest thing under the

    Shall utterly deface.”
would remind them of certain simple truths.
iron invisible to human eyes. So that when Dorothy walked across the
beneath words. Leave me; I am inexorable.”
      that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on
      description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another

      Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and,

window to the door. Gabriel threw his overcoat and hat on a couch and
      morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons
overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates. I will
of the magistrates.
into the room.
must thank them in vague terms; but my Publishers are definite: so are
home and saw a fly at the door from the King’s Arms, and his
      you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
but she is sleeping now, or was ten minutes ago, when I was up at the
candle down on the table. She considered me attentively for a minute or
“But then it seems disgraceful to be flogged, and to be sent to stand

The constable waited, with his eyes on the clerk’s pen, till the latter
head for one link.
“London!” said Ignatius Gallaher. “It’s six of one and half-a-dozen of

must go back to Elizabeth-Jane, and tell her that our kinsman, Mr.

Miss Temple, through all changes, had thus far continued superintendent
stirred the fire, and then took a low seat at my master’s knee.
      “Design! nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely
humour because he had had a very satisfactory luncheon; and besides he

I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil
troubled with her, and no portion at all!” He wrote as follows:—
sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone. I remembered Adam’s
left for a stranger to reveal him to himself? He had known Basil
      this estate after the death of your honoured father (who,
      towards discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even
was not Sophie, it was not Leah, it was not Mrs. Fairfax: it was
that life has exhausted him. Lord Henry is very wicked, and I sometimes
and there spent in solitude the greatest part of the half-holiday

my hand, exchanging a few words of special farewell with some
      ecstasy, calling for everyone’s congratulations, and laughing and

      and Jane more especially, who gave Lydia the feelings which would
that it is grown impatient.”
picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious

They would shut him up if he persisted in his story.... Yet it was his
      too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away;
“Harry! Sibyl Vane is sacred!”
quarter to the bank at Millcote. I should not wonder but she has saved
sum in prize-money, the father of the girl consented to the match. He saw
of my rustic scholars liked me, and when we parted, that consciousness
      that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her
      directions, which I particularly begged him to do. He merely
full reward. Why, then, should we ever sink overwhelmed with distress,
extinguished.
slave was still bracing me with its bitter vigour; I had to stem a
 Chapter 1
evenings quietly with her, instead of passing them under the formidable


When she brought it into the Throne Room she spoke the magic words, and
so truthful. When I hear it, it carries me back a year. I forget that
very excited this afternoon. He told her those things in a way that
      by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly
      prodigiously.”
      admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl,
I dreamed it would be nameless bliss,

All these transformations, lovely to the outsider, to the wrong-headed
knew the most, and they all started away. They traveled that day and
“But I thought you had promised Basil Hallward to go and see him,”
long, with the servant’s aid, I contrived to mount a staircase; my
incident ever since. His name was Jay Gatsby, and I didn’t lay eyes on
dreg of shame, or one flavour of remorse were detected; and I do not
people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh,
me that all round me do not burn to enlist under the same banner,—to
Henry, shaking him by the hand. “Good-bye. I shall see you before
than a servant.”
Mrs. Cuxsom. “And yet I’ll lay my life I’m as respectable born as she.”
have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon
Sure was I of His efficiency to save what He had made: convinced I grew
recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one
      party were still standing and talking together very agreeably,
“So far as owing money goes....”
“It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle
familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day
One evening when it was raining so heavily that ivy and laurel
      unluckily for her ladyship, its effect had been exactly
for their faults.”
“Harry, you are horrible! You mustn’t say these dreadful things.
bedroom doors opened looked as if they belonged to a church rather than
singularly agreeable to me, and the information she communicates is
brief stay there, I shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun:
last, he came back, Dorothy asked:
both his own.
“That it is not!” was the reply. “I wonder whether the master—”
“But you will have.”

“I suppose you squared the constable, Jack,” said Mr M’Coy.
      More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park,
I can say is I never heard her sing half so well as long as I am coming
yet I longed to be nearer to it and to look upon its deadly work.
penury. The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the
Really your organs of wonder and credulity are easily excited: you
account for this interest by her own attractiveness, and she decided
he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion.

      “I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be
I both wished and feared to see Mr. Rochester on the day which followed

“My dear Basil, how do I know?” murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some

spread a copy of Town Tattle over the tapestry scenes of

below me. Everybody kept saying to me: ‘Lucille, that man’s way below
by which we can multiply our personalities.
find me so; and that, moreover, I was determined to show him divers
any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil
      of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on
colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon
ice and rock to him;’ and ice and rock you will accordingly become.”
earnestly, “You are all mistaken; I know the murderer. Justine, poor,

this man’s assertions, uttering the formula, “There’s nothing in ’em,”
I am: ever more absolutely bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh. I
to darken the sky.
with whom they could have scenes. Lord Henry had told him that, and
house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon
      immediately fell into conversation, though it was only on its
She went back, and he could see her stoop till her head was close to
“Oh fie, Miss!” said Bessie.

the selfish calm and sensual comfort of civilised affluence. I hope

      be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without

She was surprised to find how irresolute her mother had become. “We
testament on the part of this relative lent a charm to her image which
“Well, I’m ashamed of you,” said Miss Ivors frankly. “To say you’d
pace the gallery. Now and then, in passing a casement, you glanced out
Maria was a very, very small person indeed but she had a very long nose

“No interference in the case of desperate intentions, for instance?
salons and verandas are gaudy with primary colours, and hair bobbed in
stiff door-handle, which, for a second or two, resisted my efforts.


peremptory heart.

Toto in her arms, the straw covered them entirely.
      Bennet was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of
      such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and
where, he flattered himself, his manners would ingratiate him with the
sandals, the parasol—and looked in the mirror. The picture glassed back
these poems.” ... “The Celtic note.”_ It was a pity his name was not
      line which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. Darcy’s
prayers at its conclusion, and then chose my couch.
      “Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all

“If I go,” I said, “I will bring you something.”
“Come, Dorothy!” cried the Wizard. “Hurry up, or the balloon will fly
      astonishment at his coming—at his coming to Netherfield, to
fantastic postures on the ragged mattresses. The twisted limbs, the

      respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their
reluctantly; it was Helen her eye followed to the door; it was for her
emotions of her early married life cohered into an equable serenity,
than once spent the winter. He hated to be separated from the picture



delicate the comfort lost, thus pampering the body and obviating the


“If it were not so far away from Casterbridge I should say that must be
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down
which they were written, I began to study them with diligence. It was

When he heard Henchard’s closing words, “It can’t be done,” he smiled
him. If we could only get one of them new-fangled carriages that makes

      before? If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not
attendant, came running up the lawn. I looked at my pupil, who did not
Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the
She shook her head.

      “Nonsense, nonsense!”
      already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of
      within thirty miles of each other.
Elizabeth-Jane found herself in a latitude of calm weather, kindly and
profession and the position of honour and affection which they hold in
“I happened to have the ribbon by me, so I made it up,” she faltered,

careful of you, my treasure: nerves like yours were not made for rough
I forget?”


Belle of Newport_ and then someone proposed one great game for a
“Yes?” The name was unfamiliar.

      are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat
      Forsters ever let her go out of their sight? I am sure there was
“I want you to give up German and learn Hindostanee.”

Fortunately, the Witches of the North and South were good, and I knew

      Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him. She
he had discontinued his attendances. The workmen’s discussions, he
might possibly have to linger on earth another thirty or forty

got gyped out of it all in two days in the private rooms. We had an
      were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had
“will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?”
show her around.”
“It is extraordinary to me, Dorian,” said Hallward, “that you should
not answer; to open my lips or move my limbs was equally impossible.
The waiter took the note, while the young stranger continued—
previous to his meditated departure from England. I waited now his
the white cliffs of Britain. The banks of the Thames presented a new scene;
drugstores here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the

“None of the Grays was any good,” said Mr Power.
My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some
by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity. Indeed, as the
Coney reflected. Farfrae was still liked in the community; but it must

Her distress awoke a nausea in her body and she kept moving her lips in
it is imperative that I should keep him ignorant that harm to me is

“One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the
      had she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to
“No delusion—no madness: your mind, sir, is too strong for delusion,
      might be copied.”
On the next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the Tin

to an explanation. I don’t know what sphynx-like expression is forming
Henchard returned to a shed, where he selected a short piece of rope

      Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a
      affected. Elizabeth was in agonies. She looked at Jane, to see
Leah shook her head, and the conversation was of course dropped. All I
for renewing an attempt upon it now. Her heart longed for some ark into
splendid bazaar, she said; she would love to go.
motive in coming to Casterbridge to unite herself with Henchard—her
that two candles must be set at the head of a corpse. He had often said
“Suppose I don’t go to Southampton, and come into town this
what I am.”
“That I can. But the worst larry for me was that pheasant business at
      half-hour in which she can command his attention. When she is


steps of kings. It is better not to be different from one’s fellows.
      Lady Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying,

“Maria, you are a veritable peace-maker!”


colours being hung up to the arching trees without any regard to
hour, rubbing her fingers over his eyes and looking at him with
“You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that,” said Dorian

      frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than

the beauty of Sibyl Vane. She is beautiful. What more can you want?”
it seemed like a large egg reposing on the papers. Mr Alleyne did not

She did not answer nor yield wholly to his arm. He said again, softly:
and the wheat-crop by the weather. Thus in person, he became a sort of
visitress pierce the young pastor’s heart. A sort of instinct seemed to

      “What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!” was a wonder which
Pierrot as often as I could, and had besides, during the last seven
      Poor Jane! I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she
This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself. I was innocent;
prescribes for me. You must tell me what people you would like to meet,


      was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.
She saw him to the door. The carman was stamping up and down the
CHAPTER X.
taken in in buying it as much as the bakers who bought it o’ me.”

Henchard stood as if idiotized. She was so alarmed at his silence that
my book, I studied the aspect of that winter afternoon. Afar, it
after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her
The modesty of the demand shook me. He had waited five years and

      A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was
two feet. At the back of the wall was a corn-yard with its granary and
came up at this time, brought similar intelligence. Effigies, donkey,

reward I promised myself from my detested toils—one consolation for my
return.”

round in the other direction, his white waist-coat preceding his face,
always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you have never
      not how to admire enough.
outraged, his own life on a former occasion had been hideously plotted
Here they dropped the poor Woodman, who fell a great distance to the
breeding was carried on with Abrahamic success. The head of stock
      “It was a subject which they could not mention before me.”
heavy-lidded eyes and the disorder of his scanty hair made him look
Cowley.”
gay.”

absolutely lost. He revised impressions from a subsequent point of

the very simplicity she failed to understand.
the Castle, where Dorothy washed her face and combed her hair, and the
china, even to their clothes, and were so small that the tallest of
hand before any fellow with a handle to his name? Isn’t that so, Mat?”


      estate from one’s own daughters, I cannot understand; and all for
Algerian pastilles in a pierced copper brazier, he bathed his hands and
waited, and voices sang, and there was laughter from unheard jokes,
“Are all your arrangements complete?”
      perhaps, a nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly! I
they got the keys and opened the chapel and the clerk and Father
had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.
uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul. Justine started. When
them, and each of them says something different. I don’t know which to
for there’s nothing to be said against the tune.”
distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my

They thanked him and bade him good-bye, and turned toward the West,
hanging long down her back. I know not what dress she had on: it was
      talked of giving one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable
      ball the very next week. She remembered also that, till the

I returned, sought the sponge on the washstand, the salts in my drawer,
      “What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I
“If we only had the Scarecrow with us again,” said the Tin Woodman,
even warm, and I sat at work in the schoolroom with the window open.
seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding-places to
That woman was no other than Grace Poole.
was closed with shutters, in each of which appeared a heart-shaped

      prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed
      without anger such treatment; but Sir William’s good breeding
not be delighted to change places with you.”
      the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you! If
divided into twelve panels, bore, in grim design, the heads of the

saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis,—the veil, torn from
chocolates and sweets wrapped in gold and silver papers and a glass
and then we went downstairs. Unused as I was to strangers, it was
      journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of her
London of his own day what to imperial Neronian Rome the author of the
no stir of bright dresses in and out the door, and hear no sound but

      and it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two

boots. Elizabeth-Jane, who had often observed them, said, “I wonder if

      against it. Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my
For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of
rabbit for supper.”
companions.
      “No, I believe not.”
spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range

The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever he was known. His
“What a long way! I wonder Mrs. Reed is not afraid to trust her so far
“I am sure you do. Now, Jane, trip on before us away to the backstairs;
main fact.
road; I was sure it was you; and you were departing for many years and
pathetic had been heard at the Three Mariners for a considerable time.
forest, and all the beasts that live there have made me their King. If
the things that life had in store?
hazarded. Besides, I was out of practice in talking to him: his reserve
he did not flinch from his friend’s gaze. Ignatius Gallaher watched him


“Do you mean you’ve been to a medium?” inquired Jordan humorously.
“Did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant was
not there, to call at the house.
shoulder between the highway hedges, the new yellow of the rushes
apparatus from my view. He had also changed my apartment; for he
had hated his guts.
      “The _present_ always occupies you in such scenes—does it?” said




through the hay and straw to the office where Henchard sat in solitude

never was engaged.”
circumstances, as it would be under his.
not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on
servant. Lord Henry passed up the low arcade into Burlington Street and
the garage with glazed eyes, addressed a mumbled incoherent remark to
than the evolution of wishes from mere fancies, and of wants from mere
I’ll do the job right enough. I’ll do the retreat business and
she. They showed her to me in parties, splendidly dressed. I seldom saw

furniture, and took possession, an incident which would doubtless have
tumuli and earth forts of the distant uplands; making it altogether a
down and saw a strange sight.
“How can you say that? I admit that I think that it is better to be
sort of face. When you came on me in Hay Lane last night, I thought
less than of other human things, had prevented artistic superfluity.
      whom he must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to
believe him? There was no trace of the murdered man anywhere.
to bed, but Wilson refused, saying that he’d miss a lot of business if
please God!”
      wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune,
foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human
restaurant dinner—young clerks in the dusk, wasting the most poignant
nature of wooing between Henchard and the now Mrs. Farfrae; and his

second he was jovial; at the third, argumentative, at the fourth, the
his is the sternness of the warrior Greatheart, who guards his pilgrim
in your step as you crossed the threshold.”
      to take leave, Elizabeth, ashamed of her mother’s ungracious and
with many hands. He pointed out every detail to me eagerly. “Look
left as far as they could see; and, besides, they did not dare change
“No, sir, only the candlestick on the ground.”
precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to


a thousand pounds, so with five thousand they will do very well.”
window-gazers eastward, and all perceived (for they were practised in
no more.”

Captain Sinico, of Leoville, Sydney Parade, husband of the deceased,
      She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the

“It’s better to have nothing to say to them,” said Mr M’Coy. “That’s my
most beautiful women, I suppose: indeed I have seen Blanche, six or

they were, so far as looks go, many years older.
the scarlet fields. The Scarecrow began to grumble a bit.
this. They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn
that the sale was in a way binding. She was as guiltless o’ wrong-doing
three words began with the same letter. The chief clerk began to hurry
wish her weel.”
wantonness of power and cruelty. Pitiless as you have been towards me,


regain.


      anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness of temper, that
“Jane, if aid is wanted, I’ll seek it at your hands; I promise you
who held in their mouths coins of Hadrian, Posthumus, and the
change!”
The younger of the two was a stranger to me. She was extended full
you or I to do with the superstitions of our age? No: we have given up

house, who is in close alliance with the old gentleman. I have seen a
      Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. Bennet’s

He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor William
to come, nothing to wait for. Yet in the natural course of life he

      from the marriage of her sisters. He bore with philosophy the

is most unkind of her, my dear,” she whispered. “Of course I go and
      done; and I suppose he has two or three French cooks at least.

and me; we are enemies. Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight,
In the settles of the large room, guyed to the ceiling by cords as
      Even Elizabeth began to fear—not that Bingley was indifferent—but
      “None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of
loss of power. He understood but little of fashion in dress, yet enough
With these words Mr. Brocklehurst put into my hand a thin pamphlet sewn
difficulty now in approving of the course he had taken.
The nurse closed the front door; I went in by the side entrance which

uneasy, as though the whole evening had been a trick of some sort to
retirement where punctual habits would be permanently secured from
had stood them drinks in Egan’s.
“But is that a fact?” asked Mr O’Connor.
“That is entirely due to me,” broke in Lord Henry. “Isn’t it, Mr.
      could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley’s large
      quite beautiful, and danced with her twice. Only think of _that_,
“I always like to help anyone in trouble. But I must go now, for my
nothing remained but a shell-like wall, very high and very


entered the door Jopp said, “This is rather bad about Mrs. Farfrae’s
      it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day,
engaged in an obstetrical conversation with two chorus girls, and who
“Why did you speak to me before them like that, Farfrae? You might have
so that not a vestige of it will be left. Nobody saw this person come
huddled all together; and it is shut in by a square wall of trees, like
“You were crazy about him for a while,” said Catherine.
the empty High Street, passing and repassing the inn in his promenade.





then, in a moment, he would vanish, causing the gazer to blink like
      might be their former conduct, that she would think capable of
“You must roam further afield.” He said goodnight to Jopp, and returned
fond of you?”
“Thornfield is a pleasant place in summer, is it not?”

From this evening onward Lucetta was very uneasy. If she had not been
good looks. One day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who
opposite to me was Miss Temple’s room. A light shone through the

      “Pardon me for interrupting you, madam,” cried Mr. Collins; “but

the town; and return to curse him, and carry his last treasure away!
I slowed up to avoid overtaking him he stopped and began frowning into

      pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome: I like them

“Ye don’t say that?”

about. ’Twas a curious business. I was younger then than I am now, and
“Yes, sir; in different ways, I have an affection for both.”
to the door and knocked.
      music, singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to
and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you all? But these are
“Mr. Rochester is not likely to return soon, I suppose?”

high a price for any sensation.
all its associations are solid and sober, and its manifestations are
incorruptible dream, as he waved them goodbye.


The man said they were to get a cab for him. While the point was being
pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt
himself into an arm-chair and began to turn over the leaves. After a
tart away. Bessie asked if I would have a book: the word _book_ acted
a fairy’s wing.
inquiries.”

pride to his cheek) one of Ignatius Gallaher’s sayings when he was in a


delight in their task of communicating; and Mr. Rochester was so
to her servant when the case was over. She had risen late, and had just
given to violent innuendo, and obviously under the impression that

in a flower-like way. “We heard it from three people, so it must be
express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will not talk again
peace. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to
      “I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Wickham, after a short
Square. I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don’t feel at
He had been for many years cashier of a private bank in Baggot Street.
may be. But the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself. The
“Here’s my best respects, sir,” to Mr Henchy, drank the contents, put
you. After all, justice permits you to keep it: you may, with a clear
recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I arrived at the
_tableau_ was interesting.
      “And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a
“And I thought Oz was a lovely Lady,” said the Scarecrow.
“No.”
high price for living too long with a single dream. He must have
      thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a Lord!

prettiest.
brought the blouse home Annie kissed him and said it was very pretty
pushed open, on the advice of an elevator boy, was marked “The
you. Do you twig?”
meal, “it is so kind of you to get this nice breakfast with your own
become the property of the man who could walk over and get it. There

ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the
dreadful cold.”
the studio now, and when I am away from you, and I hear all these
“Gatsby bought that house so that Daisy would be just across the bay.”
wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until



The man was seen in the partial gloom to be large-framed and
“Oh!” I thought, “she is not going to die; they are mistaken: she could
The sister Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.
“I require and charge you both (as ye will answer at the dreadful day

enjoyment in accepting their simple kindness, and in repaying it by a

handle; whereupon a cloud of wheat husks flew out into her face, and
before; except, to be sure, that the serious addition to his years had
went upon their journey.
At this point Jordan and I tried to go, but Tom and Gatsby insisted
“We could probably tell something of what they said, but not all—for we
 VII
great claws grabbed the Scarecrow by the arm and carried him up into
separation; that wind would then have saddened my heart; this obscure

nine; and at ten footmen were still running to and fro with trays and


      convinced her that it did not contain a denial.
therefore the modern child seeks only entertainment in its wonder tales

“But you heard an odd laugh? You have heard that laugh before, I should
new.”
      better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared

in the liquid lustre of her eyes, which had suddenly acquired a beauty
scale, but he cut her short. Trunks had to be carried down and mufflers
      “I am sure,” she added, “if it was not for such good friends I do
      sees such at home.”

daughter with her. They told me in Falmouth that Susan was dead. But my
      was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been
however, never played: he was too grown up. Her father used often to
tambourine going on there. Lord, what’s all the world—do ye come along
The hall was not dark, nor yet was it lit, only by the high-hung bronze
      “Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a
along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise
waves.
jealous temper had passed away, his heart sank within him at what he
      entered the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual,
am sorry I kept you so long. I was thinking of something else.”
what she did: or rather, to discover any result of her diligence. She



Chapter 27
blunder; yet when addressed, you lifted a keen, a daring, and a glowing
      himself.”
Rochesters time out of mind.”
      this.”


capacity; toil under Eastern suns, in Asian deserts with him in that
      “This is a wretched beginning indeed! My sole dependence was on
the Nationalist candidate, he had been engaged to work for Mr Tierney.
“That drugstore business was just small change,” continued Tom slowly,
her, looked round to see who was there. Dorian bowed to him shyly from
There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. He stamped his
it?—why, to give you an excuse for coming here as if to visit _her_,
must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human body.
Farfrae was sorry at the intelligence, and Mr. Vatt continued: “Well,
first view of it shall be in front,” I determined, “where its bold
      alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous
arms, sometimes dandled on my knee, sometimes watched playing with
      first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, she

it.”
frequently. It was Henchard’s, whose retiring to rest had proved itself
had just brought; and under it in the box I found your present—the veil

sheep-bells, whose wearer had had the good fortune not to be included
be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and

didn’t see me until I was five feet away.
      unable to equal in her replies. They seemed each of them to have
      attack Mr. Darcy, whose reception of his advances she eagerly
applauded loudly with all the others at the close of the song and loud

looked around for a refreshment tent among the many which dotted the
      puzzle me exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to

into her heart: she is looking at what she can remember, I believe; not
“Where is she buried?” the traveller inquired.
XV.
      expression of the latter which, in her ladyship’s apprehension,



“I’m the man for the ladies,” said Mr Browne, pursing his lips until
wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy. She had been moved from the
dog in her arms followed the green girl through seven passages and up
her elbow acquaintance, the old man.
only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it


“Yes, ma’am.”

      why she was so thoughtful.
was instantly dissipated.
“Why, you see, sir, all the women side with Farfrae—being a damn young
sofa was a small table, with a pack of cards scattered upon it faces

      to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its cooking was
They walked back to the road. Dorothy helped him over the fence, and
maladies so strange that one had to pass through them if one sought to
street. It was not yet light; a dense fog prevailed, and the town was

seed-drill—what a phenomenon!”
and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection. They
some bustle in the neighbourhood of Mr. Rochester’s chamber, Mrs.
series of four grand concerts which his Society was going to give in
from the settlement of foundations. The bay window projecting into the
a response, and quickly. It worked and worked faster: I felt the pulses


his delicate hands twitched nervously together. He struck at the horse
Henchard withheld his answer for several instants, and then said, “Yes;

mimicry:
satisfied air, as if he had summed up the world in a phrase. There was
VIII.
However, Mr Cunningham was a capable man; and religion was religion.
      dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and solemn,
“Why can she not influence him more, when she is privileged to draw so





gone, and there is a tender shining after it: you shall have a walk
lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier. She is a widow, and much
in her eyes. “What do you say to that, Mr. Gray?” she inquired.

and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive
more to the light lest she might see the shame that burned upon his




wintry blight and brown decay. I shuddered as I stood and looked round
believe it.”
metallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament the situation
      “What should not you mind?”
CHAPTER IV.
this engagement had not decreased. Both Farfrae and Elizabeth-Jane,
unexpected opportunity to gratify my much-excited curiosity. I slipped
is generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his
      sort, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of

excitements to his vengeance, that they are not the creations of his

me there, and only me.”
A provisional resource suggested itself. “Miss Henchard—will you go on


      freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are

“Don’t be silly; it’s just two minutes to four.”
“One instant, Jane. Give one glance to my horrible life when you are
composed as ever I did in my life: there was nothing indeed in the

      Collins and myself sincerely sympathise with you and all your
      understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have


“O yes—I remember the story of _your friend_,” said Elizabeth drily,
“A delightful theory!” she exclaimed. “I must put it into practice.”
and make his spirits unequal.”
“My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily
occupation or amusement: I had brought my drawing materials with me,
seldom at home: a large proportion of his time appeared devoted to


he has been paying you compliments. You mustn’t believe a word that he


moment had touched him took life within him like an infant hope. He


Jacks, which abounded in the town to-day, to the end of a deal
hilarious. They were Charles Ségouin, the owner of the car; André


not doing these little people more harm than breaking a cow’s leg and a
octave in the bass. Great applause greeted Mary Jane as, blushing and
And for the rest, though you have a man’s vigorous brain, you have a
she seemed to experience some inward sensation—the precursor, perhaps,
      have called on him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually
      view of his own warehouses, could have been so well-bred and
those who have it. You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won’t

As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled
“For one thing, I have no father or mother, brothers or sisters.”
painful degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow

such stanzas crooned in her praise.”
      When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of
of childhood; God has graciously given her the shape that He has given
it amused her to look over the balustrade and watch the servants
and followed him. As she passed through the doorway she stopped and
Versailles. Then Mr. McKee turned and continued on out the door.
terribly wicked, and had they not thought I was more powerful than they
babble of the child in reply.

smiled at me as she again went by. What a smile! I remember it now, and

catch the import; but Burns immediately left the class, and going into
by-the-bye, it was you who made me the offer.”
Manor House for the night; and finding that arrangements to that
eyes began to read the second stanza:
“To be sure.”

so sweet as the dew fell; it was such a pleasant evening, so serene, so
in his house failed to go on one Saturday night—and, as obscurely as

had contemplated during the day. They congregated round me; the



letters, he smiled. Three of them bored him. One he read several times
gazed neither on sky nor earth: my heart was with my eyes; and both
      like herself.

brains I shall know everything.”
“I believe she thought I had forgotten my station, and yours, sir.”


“With me,” said I, “it is fully as much a matter of feeling as of
“How was that, Martin?” asked Mr Power.
thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion. Alas! To me
      “This is a parade,” he cried, “which does one good; it gives such

his creature were, and that I ought to render him happy before I
      quitting that sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s
in our veins; we could now endure the play-hour passed in the garden:

neither bring ruin upon others, nor ever receive it from alien hands.
forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was away
as my stepdaughter. The thing is so natural and easy that it is half

      own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the
      Mrs. Bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was
      The others then joined her, and expressed admiration of his
he wore his soft brown hat carelessly on the side of his head and that
is so very good of ’ee, Elizabeth, to come and tell me. You must be so
herded together for shelter and warmth in the verandah; and amongst
dependent on another for that office! I had meant to be gay and
      when the affair became public.
“Show.”
business at Mellstock. It is—your wife! She is ill. I can tell you
      application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she

meets me alone here in the gloaming! If I dared, I’d touch you, to see
Lord Henry smiled, and leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled daisy from
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
morsel of brown bread distributed at tea-time; and after relinquishing
life—at least so I thought.

“I know that game,” he said, “and it’s a mug’s game.”
      understand it. I shall then give over every expectation, every
countenances expressed a breathless terror, but the horror of others
from one curtained bow-window; all the rest were dark. The car stopped
she commended his patience and perseverance in going through with it.
“Will you replace the grown flour we’ve still got by sound grain?”
animated and an audible thinking. All my confidence is bestowed on him,
distillers and brewers. He had opened a small shop on Glasnevin Road
      “She did not choose it,” said her daughter, “she would go.”
countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, “My dearest friend, you
The Country of the Quadlings
sound o’t all day, but I didn’t go up—not I. ’Twas no business of
passed the outworks of conventional reserve, and crossed the threshold
Glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving


Perhaps we would do well to wait a little longer.”
and the nearest hedgerow boughs, were powdered by the dust that had
      sake of having someone at his disposal. I wonder he does not
madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them
is my belief that he’s just a bit crazed. He has been reading to me a
      herself, for, at any rate, there seemed a gulf impassable between
      probably never reach.” When she thought of her mother, her
She tried to stand up and comfort him trustfully; but she could not;
      “I must not decide on my own performance.”
      of ease or forgetfulness.
“Mr. Wood is in the vestry, sir, putting on his surplice.”
“You have a kind aunt and cousins.”
      seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people

“There! I am up now; but at your peril you fetch a candle yet: wait two
I.
native river. But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you
They were not bound to regard with affection a thing that could not
like I should be willing to make you an allowance, so that you not be
and looked round.
up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander. But what
more life, more vivacity, because I had brighter hopes and keener

On re-entering the parlour, I found Diana standing at the window,
present would have roused him from his stupefied doze. It was always I
      When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and
      difficult to understand. It could not be for society, as he
      But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be
How slowly the time passes here, encompassed as I am by frost and snow!

courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched
“Someone you were in love with?” he asked ironically.
 Chapter XIX. Attacked by the Fighting Trees

resemble his father, and I am glad of it: John is like me and like my
      engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than

      agreeable. Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger than Mrs.

if afraid that mere coldness would not sufficiently convince me how
      subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no
      The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with
blue cloth suit of his gentlemanly times, a rusty silk hat, and a once

“I see you and St. John have been quarrelling, Jane,” said Diana,
and its tremendous _dôme_ overlooked the valley.

the Lion were tired, and lay down upon the grass and fell asleep, with
      in life is a joke.”
asked, very sensibly, what would Father Butler be doing out at the
“Next week; I’ve got my man working on it now.”
up with hay to the bedroom windows as one was, it was impossible.
was only to intimate that tea was ready in Mrs. Fairfax’s room. Thither
itself. I did not want any external influence in my life. You know
changes of place and fortune. Not for a moment. His idea was still with


“Yes, plainly: I often hear her: she sews in one of these rooms.
company and boasting so much that the other two had called on
“Where are you going? It is time for lessons.”
that whenever the chances of the figure made them the partners of a

wedding one of these fine days with your young man, eh?”
the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging
Alas! Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can
marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a
approached.
you went closer you would see that they had been cut into long thick
matter. “I know very little about driving—next to nothing. It

tribute, which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of those
own family to mind, and could only come occasionally to the hall. I
monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted

first time in my life I saw in the plain woodland the wonder I had
and branches. Shall we go there?”

full mouth. Her eyes, which were grey with a shade of green through
shed such stormy, scalding, heart-wrung tears as poured from mine. May
CHAPTER XVII.
in the land of Egypt. I looked on my cherished wishes, yesterday so
The Guardian of the Gate
      blessing in comparison of this. And it is the more to be


“Well, sir?”

“If our friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, were only with us,”

weapon left her as a woman. Having laid her plan she rose, and wrote to
walls, keeping his eyes fixed on the page he perused, and his lips
mystery in her attitude as if she were a symbol of something. He asked

      expression towards Bingley and Jane, who were dancing together.
“Yes, he is living,” said Elizabeth-Jane.
Lord Henry yawned. “Basil was very popular, and always wore a Waterbury

When once more alone, I reviewed the information I had got; looked into

“Well, what’s the row?” said Blowbody. “Got their names—hey?”
rapidly. “He and this Wolfshiem bought up a lot of side-street
      they followed the servants through an ante-chamber, to the room
never to look at your picture again, I am content. I have always you to
helped me.
childlike look, and winsome fanciful ways, and shy tremulous grace. He

Chicago newspaper. I started right away.”
the wiliness of a snake, that I may sting with its venom. Man, you shall
He threw himself into a chair and began to think. Suddenly there
“Never in my life.”

      choose.”
“Ladies and Gentlemen,
      she _did_ speak, she must be vulgar. Nor was her respect for him,
won’t answer for my deeds!”
not know how to get rid of the weary time between breakfast and dinner,
no wife. But as it is, either our union must be consecrated and sealed
moon’s rays, and passed and repassed by the forms of Henchard and the

      concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be
him and he sat down beside us on the slope slowly and with great care.
intelligent—her features equally pretty; but her expression was more
      “Indeed!”
had just made this strange confession to him, and wondered if he
      “Complied with! I am only ashamed of his asking so little.”
finish.
At this the Queen of the Mice stuck her head out from underneath a
      her. Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed a little
stood the widow, pale, grave, and amazed. I only smiled at her, and ran
quickly in the sun. That is the end of her. But the silver shoes are
And when I returned, sometimes a good deal tired, and not a little
from the East. He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not
door, which he had shut.

“We’ve got to beat them down,” whispered Daisy, winking ferociously
an unexpected way.
was loose; I stopped to tie it, kneeling down for that purpose on the
those missing hours. I started to turn away, but he took a step after


safety to the place where I hoped, notwithstanding my adversary’s gibe,
waiting for him and said proudly:
bosom, lest my jewel I should tyne.”

please, inspired me, in return, with a degree of attachment sufficient
      was great. He had never had the slightest suspicion. I told him,
given to your efforts and mine by our physical and mental union in
There she sat, staid and taciturn-looking, as usual, in her brown stuff
      “Do you really think so?” cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a
_did_ Mr. Rochester enforce this concealment? His guest had been
nodded familiarly to it and waved his hand.
so little at dinner. I am afraid,” she continued, “you are not well

that the explanation Mr. Rochester had given was merely an invention

farmers who lived in an eastern purlieu called Durnover. Here
The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the
      in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine and Lydia;
about the streets and outskirts of the town, lingering here and there

more. Then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the
      from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas. Yours,

      He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least
“No, you men never do consider economy and common sense. You should
wished him godspeed. Gallaher had got on. You could tell that at once

      her father had been short and to the purpose.
Lucetta had taken that they were bound for the spot.
solid gold and fitted it to the Woodman’s axe, instead of the old
the merriment of the billiard-players was heard from above.
out on the bed and her tiny dress-boots beside the foot of the bed. She
alter more. Its gold would wither into grey. Its red and white roses
For three days Dorothy heard nothing from Oz. These were sad days for
“Ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, Gladys. You, as a good
“Now, sir, proceed; what did you do when you found she was mad?”

worry. Just trust me and I’ll get somebody for you—”
rut, then swerved aside and broke into a gallop.
      game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to
pursuit.
catching the eye of an occasional field-labourer as he glanced through
Eliza closed her eyes and shook her head slowly.
made but she said that the manager must have been a very overbearing
scrutinizing gaze at some small object in the street.
is dark and empty.”
with the tawdry girls who sat beside them. Some women were laughing in

himself. “I suppose ’tis because I’m so lonely. I’d have given him a
The evening deepened in the avenue. The white of two letters in her lap
word said, four of us, the chauffeur, butler, gardener, and I hurried
“She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty. When she again
spent his last penny for the g.p. and soon it would be too late for
“My family all died and I came into a good deal of money.”

“How can you keep in good health? Children younger than you die daily.
“Ah, poor Joe is a decent skin,” said Mr O’Connor.
“The button from your foil,” he answered. “You have dropped it.”
“Don’t try, my dear,” he answered. “We should like to keep you with us,
French _esprit_ when she could get it.
night. I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could
      management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid. From
suffer from, on account o’ the loneliness of my domestic life, when the

      She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of
lovely Lady I shall beg hard for a heart, for all ladies are themselves
      gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity to

      Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he
away.

“For shame! for shame!” cried the lady’s-maid. “What shocking conduct,
better terms with himself.
movies in one way or another. And the Catlips and the Bembergs and G.

imagined, nearer to Mr. Rochester’s presence.
of the Great Oz.
“Dorian’s, of course,” answered the painter.
heart.
away and left me alone.
pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the




monster in the vessel. Glad was I when I at last got her to Thornfield,
“No; I don’t think so.”
proportion, and her complexion wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with
      He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped. To
race, ourselves excepted, were swept away, and we two stood alone on
      ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in

But I liked his physiognomy even less than before: it struck me as
a minute,” and he went forward to the inner apartment. A shout of
      subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.”
on my traveller’s bed, I left reminiscence for anticipation.
still bent on going?”
the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and
not die and leave my adversary in being.

The garden was a wide inclosure, surrounded with walls so high as to
Suddenly he looked at his watch, jumped up, and hurried from the room,
country. We possessed a house in Geneva, and a _campagne_ on Belrive,
proceeded from the room above mine: but they assured me that it was not


      does not.”
more of you—therefore speak.”
dented on the rocks below. But if I am on your back it will not matter
I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the
Thornfield; and I kept involuntarily framing advertisements and
      “Yes, indeed,” cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of
looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. “Don’t touch me!” he cried.
Inn,” and handed the packet to Elizabeth.
      dignified relations at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to
      would manage everything! How I long to see her! and to see dear
to time, asking whether I had ever been at school before, whether I
Mr. Reed had been alive he would have treated me kindly; and now, as I
“My uncle in Madeira is dead, and he left me five thousand pounds.”
time was going.”

      soon swallowed up every private care; and covering her face with

“Jimmy was bound to get ahead. He always had some resolves like this
the pastille striving vainly to overcome the effluvia of mortality,
reputation. Perhaps because she doesn’t drink. It’s a great advantage
      Peak.
The painter turned to his servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight.
      to introduce you.”

whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks—we shall all suffer
Then he went on into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled. After he
opened till Elizabeth-Jane’s wedding-day_.”

the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me. I had already
_He_, for it was a man, turned his head slowly towards where I stood,
“Do you consider you have got your reward for a season of exertion?”

the true story of their lives.
“Beat me!” he heard her cry. “Throw me down and beat me, you dirty
across my brain was an error. I believe it was an inspiration rather
away from his lips.

XXXI.
she had, since Farfrae’s dismissal, shifted her quarters from the back
only a homely one?”


Jimmy; he was an old man:
      highly accomplished. Since her father’s death, her home has been
apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention
her father’s door. “O dear me—what am I at?” she thought, as she pulled
it more closely, but had always hitherto been deemed unworthy of such a
“Are you book-learned?” she inquired presently.
      him, from her dressing-room window, enter the paddock and ride

Fairfax seemed to think it necessary that some one should be amiable,
Mr Lyons’ bottle. Mr Lyons jumped off the table, went to the fire, took

“Well,” said the Head, “I will give you my answer. You have no right to
usually spoke with more authority than the rest on account of their
dim, as if filled with smoke; and, while looking to the right hand and

“What—Miss Henchard—and are ye up so airly?”
She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and
“How? I don’t understand.”
attributed the failure rather to my own inexperience and mistake than to a

      and how far it would be for the happiness of both that she should
lateness of the hour, he got up, and going into the next room, placed
yield me enough to live on from day to day.
“Ah! Harry, your views terrify me.”
love and kindness.
nowadays except that. Death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the

plumcake. She tried in Downes’s bag and then in the pockets of her
“He is a gentleman,” said the lad sullenly.
      leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house
      as intruding themselves needlessly long, she urged Jane to borrow
and anxious to gain experience and instruction. The difference of
“I’ve been to the Moulin Rouge,” Ignatius Gallaher continued when the
reliance on the power of other qualities, intrinsic or adventitious, to
in an authoritative manner. Campbell felt dominated by him. They left

steps and coughed. Corley turned and went towards her. His broad figure

      hear herself called “Mrs. Wickham” by each of them; and in the


looked so composed and so grave also, I became ashamed of feeling any

“Miss Ingram!” exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax, and away she hurried to her post
become more interested in biology, and his name appeared once or twice
thirsty, but did not touch the food, excitement and fatigue rendering

The duration of my absence was left to my own choice; a few months, or

suspected me just the same.
“Her name was Wilson. Her husband owns the garage. How the devil did
I have not been able to see the people, which was worse. The Grosvenor
      impertinent. She mentioned this to her friend Miss Lucas.
about. That yellow car I was driving this afternoon wasn’t mine—do you
edification of the pupils, by encouraging them to evince fortitude
Maker. I began sometimes to pray: very brief prayers they were, but
“Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do good to them that

should care nothing about it.”
and I’m pretty cynical about everything.”
the eye. My eye rose to his; and while I looked in his fierce face I
man when they reserved none for themselves.
      Mrs. Phillips was always glad to see her nieces; and the two
escaped to the open country and fearfully took refuge in a low hovel,
horses were kept.
black yew at the gate. “This is not thy deception, nor thy witchcraft:
breathe and think, I must love him.”

      communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen
small town … He must know what a small town is … Well, he’s no use to
chiefly from conjecture. It was evident, indeed, that she wished me to




muffled windows; a great looking-glass between them repeated the vacant
I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my
      youngest, I’m the tallest.”
you! But the last singularity explains the first, as I intimated once
      attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had
after the death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed
the American Legion, and Miss Claudia Hip, with a man reputed to be
routine of school in the morning because I wanted real adventures to
in the chair near my pillow; and as he closed the door after him, all
ignorant and disappointed. It requires more philosophy than I possess

      anything of their plans, and would not give his real opinion
under-touch of the same. The seal had cracked, and the letter was open.
sympathy with himself, he observed her going and coming more narrowly.

with his parents ever since and even long before his birth. It may


“Dear me—is that so!” said Farfrae.

      two sisters and Mr. Darcy, however, should have such an

decisively, set down his glass and said:
which they were bound, and after her death the woman of the house in
The ten minutes John had given seemed very long, but at last wheels
holding the separate ingredients stood on a white-clothed table of
Today at the City of Dublin Hospital the Deputy Coroner (in the absence
anything but, just as the door was closing, Mr O’Connor, who had been
      it. She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance
together.”

late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set

made her look like a little perverse madonna. Mrs Mooney had first sent
grass cut,” he said.
“Eveline! Evvy!”

in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.’

      chaise and four driving up the lawn. It was too early in the
      confidence to all his assertions; for as to Mr. Darcy’s using him
what he said: its import relieved me from immediate apprehension.
      undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in

When we left the dining-room, she proposed to show me over the rest of
Higgins never had anything for himself. A man with two establishments
      comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
He came level with his friend and looked keenly in his face. He could
existence.
studies. It was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with
      so often! A young man, such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so
when he sat at the window, his desk and papers before him, he would
Well might I dread, well might I dislike Mrs. Reed; for it was her
space like a soft trace of light—I felt the might and strength of God.
Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her. Lord
light swerving towards Cuckoo Lane, the by-road aforesaid. Farfrae’s
looking at Gatsby.

gesture as if wishing to recall them. St. John had a book in his
He was soon out of sight.

lively glance and animated complexion. My friend would then turn to me,
exigency of hunger.
      being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at
place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the
There was a burst of applause, and a deep silence which was even more
the room of a club when you enter it? Why is it that so many gentlemen
past.”
committing a terrible crime, my man,” he said, looking at him sternly.

      replied Elizabeth, “but it is not in my power to accept it. I

the clock took this moment to tilt dangerously at the pressure of his
      felt for her, immediately followed. He spoke well; but there were
gravel-walk girdling a grass-plat, and this set in the heavy frame of
slave-driver—you are like the Roman emperors!”

way, had not lost its ripe nut colour.

talking, or it will be twelve, I doubt.” Thus speaking he went out by

A PAINFUL CASE

Isn’t it a terrible thing to die so young as that?”
the book on the little Florentine table that always stood at his
“However, I can do no less than thank ’ee.”
fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a

      with a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the


often absent at such places the whole week long. When this was all
Woodman. “When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the
friends were at first dazzled by the brilliancy of the wonderful City.

His ill-got riches shall be made
French dancer’s bastard? Why do you importune me about her! I say, why
manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public,

large emeralds set closely together. In the center of the roof was a
enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting
      discover the name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr.
      They ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from
Beckenham, the companion of the Prince Regent in his wildest days, and
was the rush of a bull; if a plover whistled, I imagined it a man.


both arms, and that kind of thing.”
“I must speak, and you must listen. You shall listen. When you met Lady
he had himself been deceived in her identity at first, till informed by
grateful happy accent. I used to enjoy a chance meeting with you, Jane,
looking, with its two rows of small black doors all shut, like a
“Where’s Daddy?”
ask you to endure one more night under this roof, Jane; and then,
“Hush, Alan. You have saved my life,” said Dorian.
strange flowers, and stranger birds, and strangest human beings,—all

“There’s nothing to touch a good slavey,” he affirmed. “Take my tip for

Elizabeth, her eyes shining at this prospect of a change from an
allowed to cumber the earth. You had no right to be born, for you make
aside from the lovely sky of eve and lonely vale of Morton—I say
I had not notified to Mrs. Fairfax the exact day of my return; for I
it had changed. He showed no further tendency to be angry; he showed
      married from this house, of which I hope you will approve. She
      “Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the
dictation words which he had evidently got by heart from some
grimaces with which they commented on this manoeuvre: it was a pity Mr.
“A Lion!” cried the little Queen. “Why, he would eat us all up.”
And to this object did I press
had never really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was
more than one topic every three months. They have been very fortunate
second. Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the
      as she hoped by Caroline’s not living in the same house with her
“I dreamt another dream, sir: that Thornfield Hall was a dreary ruin,

marks the ring in the tree-trunk corresponding to its date.

      more. How could he spare half ten thousand pounds?”
“Is that so?” said Mr M’Coy.
thousand things. The mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I

recognise from Shakespeare or from the Melodies would be better. The
“Are you in it too?”

      that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!”
      feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In her own
it’s—”
“I fear not, indeed: such chance is too good to befall me.” Baffled so
doing: human love rising like a freshly opened fountain in my mind and
“Then we are all right,” answered the Scarecrow, “for you can carry us

Another step stamped on the flooring above and something fell; and
It was a bit of good luck to have their new comrade join the party, for
down.
mice have saved my life. How strange it all is! But, comrades, what

      Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Lizzy,” said he
parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence.
      abilities! who have often disdained the generous candour of my
him. And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this
A cry of terror broke from Dorian Gray’s lips, and he rushed between
blue and purple blossoms, besides great clusters of scarlet poppies,
black and white.”




      clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and
one’s boyhood? ‘Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash
This aroused the stranger’s attention, and he asked a multitude of

happiness, and I think of them with pleasure. My country, my beloved
music following them. When they reached Stephen’s Green they crossed
      in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and
suppose?”
“Stop, Gray. I don’t want to know anything further. Whether what you

made you a little angry this morning in the car.”
yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of
      uncle’s opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency,
Ireland. You’ll like Ireland, I think: they’re such warm-hearted people
with some privately purloined dainty on a nursery chair: and I smiled
corner and flipped up their noses like goats at whosoever came
But all this part of it seemed remote and unessential. I found myself

me: I heard, too, her eccentric murmurs; stranger than her laugh. There

      best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of
or to sit on their knees and sing to them: I liked it. Shall I let you
“And who was the person long ago?” asked Gabriel, smiling.


with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task; yet at the
stood round against the wall, each fitted with its genial occupant; the
“No, sir, finish it now; I pity you—I do earnestly pity you.”
“What were you doing behind the curtain?” he asked.
other schools?”
The wild crows flew in one great flock toward Dorothy and her

“I’ll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty
      year.
a century after my father, and a little later I participated in that
was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble
is he? Point him out. I must see him!” he exclaimed; but at that moment
for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of
after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.”
“Very well: so be it.”
But she didn’t say another word. We gave her spirits of ammonia and

The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours. One
      taste, and Lady Catherine’s behaviour was most friendly and

whistling through the crevices of our bedroom windows all night long,
Mr. St. John—sitting as still as one of the dusty pictures on the
triumphs have cost them too dear? Would not such another ruin you?”
“And ... Harry!”
chief hotels, leaving her in utter solitude. Could he have seen how she
judgment, satisfied his common-sense, and even suited his taste less.
destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost
know, is prepared for prompt departure: to-morrow you shall go. I only
      to take a proper direction.”
“That’s right,” corroborated Tom kindly. “We heard that you were


      deprived the British court of its brightest ornament. Her
The yeomen, farmers, dairymen, and townsfolk, who came to transact
      interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent. His surprise
“I don’t know at all—I can’t tell what to set about. I feel so down.”
“Come, Sibyl,” said her brother impatiently. He hated his mother’s
dash of blue paint across her cheek, and her hand was wet with
drawing to a close. Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these
the panes? It is marvellously romantic. What a blessing it is that
“Yes, it is,” he said. “But it is not by what is, in this life, but by


disappearances through having been for centuries an assize town, in
up to the house and visit Mrs. Poole’s patient, and _my wife_! You


machine, walked round it, and handled it as if he knew something about
the other was John MacHale.”

bachelor as I am, I have no pleasant associations connected with their
hair was the brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her
o’ my dreary state; and it was through this that the scandal arose. At
healthier than her sister’s, was all puckers and creases, like a
I can remember Miss Temple walking lightly and rapidly along our
      “You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,” said
      Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter.”
      believe it at this moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume
      expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense.
life; and he, I was now to array myself to meet, the dread, but adored,
My aunt waited until Eliza sighed and then said:
those who would insult you, now or hereafter.—Go.”
but if it is your wish to return to Kansas, I hope you will find a


sofa.
bitterness:
rivalry in love than just a bit of rivalry in trade.”

so long ago perhaps there isn’t much in it, so I’ll oblige a neighbour;
it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature
down the manly cheek. My heart swelled.
Aunt Julia did not understand but she looked up, smiling, at Gabriel,
the prophet Baruch’s sly definition: “The virgin that loveth to go
there’s no corkscrew! Here, show me one here and I’ll put it at the
Devout Communicant_ and _The Memoirs of Vidocq_. I liked the last best
delighted that you dropped in.”
At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came down with several
he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance.—Ay,

Before I could reply that he was my neighbour dinner was announced;
all the rooms at Thornfield beautifully clean and well arranged; but it
“Do you feel as if you should sleep, Miss?” asked Bessie, rather
“Is it, sir? You soon give in. How stern you look now! Your eyebrows
      he was, she did not mean to be unhappy about him.

or the Land of Oz so long as Dorothy was with him; but he knew the
Spaniard)—but Mary was deficient in life: her face lacked expression,


of a strong smell of burning.
Lucrezia Borgia?_ Because they could not get the voices to sing them:
Good night, my sister.
      with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be
“Well—it mid be. The man has got on a blue coat and kerseymere


      the story which followed, of his designs on Miss Darcy, received
      day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible
You will remember there was no road—not even a pathway—between the
elaborateness of the lie.
“I can’t think it,” she said quickly. “I can think of no other as my

the yellowing trees.
“I advertised, and Mrs. Fairfax answered my advertisement.”
nothing: she feared hard words from the people with whom she had been
spoke without listening to the speech of his companions. His
like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a
delight welcomed his Arabian. Agatha, the ever-gentle Agatha, kissed
      “Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get
room. Evidently it surprised her as much as it did me, for she yawned

What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
cried heartily.
      “I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People

note the warm consciousness upon Lucetta’s face.


“How much is a plate of peas?” he asked.
      your sake,” turning to Charlotte, “I am glad of it; but otherwise
      must be satisfied with only one. There is but such a quantity of
I know nothing, but the one fact that he professed to offer honourable
kidding.”

held by a grasp of iron: I was hurried along by a stride I could hardly
Buccleuch, but the actual founder of my line was my grandfather’s
truth, to be frank and say like a man:
is open.”

      bent their steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of
course. When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and
the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead.
the distance carefully in his mind.
They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the
in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women.
operation, and the nuts and roots much improved.

nostrils like the Thames Tunnel as seen in the perspective toys of
stopped here and turned toward each other. Now it was a cool night

remained an inch of candle: I now took out my letter; the seal was an
is, the quarter-hour just before dusk, he did not at first observe the
clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm—this placid
      later, and written in evident agitation, gave more important
Yet that there was rivalry by some one he was firmly persuaded. He
departure; and it is like looking on the necessity of death.”
front-door was unclosing, and some shape was about to issue from the
carefully at the end of a shelf.

I was silent.
seemed relieved at having made a start in a new direction. While
the gospel and man of the law, and remember with what judgment ye judge

“Then why won’t you exhibit his portrait?” asked Lord Henry.
      Bennet and the children. But in what proportions it should be
and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour. The Turk,
have that sort of thing in their houses. They say a corpse brings bad
there. Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
wrong at your house—requiring your return. I’ve run all the way here on
soul, and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance. It is so
contempt for optimism. As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but
      Charlotte’s reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and
parcel containing two dresses arrived for the latter from London. She
of the town, with a reputation to keep up, he could not invite her to
complained of his wickedness. These motives urged me to comply with

      quite a little creature. Who would have thought that she could be
were some of Lord Lytton’s works which boys couldn’t read.” Mahony
      where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as made her quite

“I don’t know enough,” replied the Scarecrow cheerfully. “My head is
murmured from the couch behind: “Who is that?”
Street over to the Albany to call on his uncle, Lord Fermor, a genial
“One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I

of reminiscence playing on her face.
hard to die, but I seemed to bear an enchanted life. I accepted a
have been recently purchased; and though he encouraged her to buy in
single-mindedness of a burglar blowing a safe.
stem of her wine-glass before sipping a little.
“Anything can happen now that we’ve slid over this bridge,” I thought;


      and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of
so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair? The
added, “any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing
Such a wrecking of hearts appalled even him. His quality was such that
the silence in which my soul luxuriated and cast an Eastern enchantment
Evidently she had reason to be. I waited but she didn’t say any more,
A tall wizen-faced man, with a stiff grizzled moustache and swarthy
The porter pointed to the tap of the electric-light and began a
within a very short distance of the manor-house, you could see nothing
      equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first
Miss Temple passed her handkerchief over her lips, as if to smooth away
During those moments Henchard had determined to follow up Lucetta

      ask nothing about it.”
living things! Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature,
for safety and bliss there, all here might be sacrificed in a second.


“It’s the funniest thing, old sport,” he said hilariously. “I
good things to eat.
a pause.
the partition to its core presently denoted that Donald Farfrae had
chisel to open it, and her brow settled gradually into petrified
looking again into the stream he took his coat and hat, and went slowly
me and instigated my fury. “My reign is not yet
Mariners having exhausted its aspects long ago—such was Henchard’s
we started to town.
 XXXIX
would it be a consolation to have that memento in your possession? or
the wheelwright’s and machinist’s, horse-embrocations at the chemist’s;
or Freddy come.
distant hautboy. In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy
younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old
would, sooner or later, speak of the former place. The distance,
leave things in order and not just trust that obliging and indifferent

      than she feels. Bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he may
      “No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton.”
hour, until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came in
      of it? Mr. Darcy may perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as
have said: ‘Now, Mary Grimes, if I don’t take it, make me take it, for

will be any good in secrets! A secret cast a deep shadow over my life.
this afternoon. She’s locked herself into her room, and if he tries
exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless. The

      considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in
his pocket. He cursed everything. He had done for himself in the
can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to
for peaceful happiness. During my youthful days discontent never
sank at sunset to a light breeze; the soft air just ruffled the water
satisfied I was not, but to please him I endeavoured to appear

heard it, the whole truth rushed into my mind, my arms dropped, the
      the feelings of each of her visitors; she wanted to compose her
“As short a time as possible, sir.”
dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be

A glance was sufficient to inform the eye that this was Susan
“Very well—arrange that yourself. I’ll go some way with you.”
      employed your time much better. No one admitted to the privilege
flitting before you like shapes in a magic-lantern: just as little
trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This
acknowledgment and good-will: not, in short, in that brief, dry
Hearing voices, one of which was close at hand, she withdrew her head
good: my heart was a sort of charnel; it will now be a shrine.”
be if you perished here of want.”

In this cottage he occupied a couple of rooms, Jopp, whom Henchard had
“Ah, well, he’s gone to a better world.”
the company, frighten or enthrall them. To be in love is to surpass
But no one tried to show her her mistake; and when she had ended her
      had seen them from her husband’s room, crossing the road, and


cottage. “May I come in?” she said.

      “About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the
      she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in
She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all turned
      happiness!”
      attentions to Jane had been merely the effect of a common and
your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to
Mr. Rochester drew back the thick curtain, drew up the holland blind,
friend. Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to
bedtime: even then a teacher who occupied the same room with me kept me
      to hear me? I will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play
“Yes, sir.”

      “May I hope, madam, for your interest with your fair daughter
unnoticed I had left it.
      “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that
      pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me

know the name well,” Henchard said at last, looking on the floor.
      is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall

“Well—no wife could I hear of in all that time; and being by nature
      beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts which were scattered over
you. The world may laugh—may call me absurd, selfish—but it does not
peculiar features therein. One was an intermittent rumbling from the
white long-haired dog, just like the Gytrash of the lane. It was so
There are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either
down they were held up by Mary Jane, who replenished them with
hour: in listening to it, I again wept. Mr. Rochester sat quiet,



and left them a sober gray; they had taken the red from her cheeks and
“Ecod! Corley, you know how to take them,” he said.
the garden.
      inviting him.”
      Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he
fate of all other spoonies. Happening to call one evening when Céline
carriage horses stamped from time to time in their closed stables: all
close quarters a second time. The gulf between them was growing wider
Henchard stood his ground rigidly; then by an unaccountable impulse


“And his sisters are called Diana and Mary Rivers?”
I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would


encouraging him to become his son-in-law. But such a scheme for buying
him.”
of the complex. But I don’t like scenes, except on the stage. What
dress; for it traversed all, quick, keen as lightning. His lips parted,
point. “Strange that I should choose you for the confidant of all this,


      more natural influence of Jane’s attractions.


them.”


elaborate roadhouse next door.
dull girl, with one of those characteristic British faces that, once
opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared. Shutting the door, he
“Oh, no; since it is an employment which depends only on me to give,

is here, and my likeness. Jane, will you marry me?”

      aside, she drew near the card-table, and stationed herself

is all that I can receive, and it shall content me. It is true, we shall be
you had planned it out of mere charity—almost as an unpleasant
that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they
him at that moment! What had occurred since, calculated to change his
at their pleasure!”
      added Charlotte, “and a most attentive neighbour.”


and you will see things the same way as I do.”
      Maria, after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs.
well what the talk was about. Villona and Rivière were the noisiest,

slime and the silk draperies cobwebs; that the marble is sordid slate,

      which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
      the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her
respected every association: he feared, indeed, I must have bestowed
worked in the accounting department, but her brother began throwing
wear white.”
laugh at me. But I really thought he came in here five minutes ago, and

trousers she tapped lightly at his door and entered. She told him all,
cloths, till it glitters again; my third, to arrange every chair,
“Thanks awfully, old chap,” said Ignatius Gallaher, “I’m sorry we
      to be made public.
with her darlings about her (for the time neither quarrelling nor
were lifted, kicking, into the night.
opportunity of doing so. Were you to argue, object, and annoy me for a


“She had a fall,” said Bessie, again putting in her word.
than of the married couple’s), and was stared at and honoured as became
happy that he hugged them all, even the Lion and Toto; and as they
Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing just as

“But—but—” She could not finish the sentence, which was, naturally,
peace for war—freedom for bondage—religion for superstition—the hope of
it was to his sisters. He expressed once, and but once in my hearing, a
himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of
      letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not

across two ideal things. Few come across one.”
innocent woman. But—to lead me into this!”

cat. He glided up the gallery and up the stairs, and stopped in the
“He is not resident, then?”
supply the inadequacy of the means to the end. Think like me,
intercourse with my kind, of acquaintance with variety of character,

including myself, had been washed overboard. I got ashore at
      astonishment but gratitude—for to love, ardent love, it must be
“Certainly. The park is quite lovely now. I don’t think there have been

he made my nose and my mouth. But I did not speak, because at that time
loved and miserable in the separation. When it became noon, and the

panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber.
      she _meant_ well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one
the branches of the tall trees which lined the mall were gay with
and black ivory of the keys. After the coffee had been brought in, he
harsh to inferiority of every description: in my secret soul I knew
it.
things always happen, don’t they? I know it has been said that figures
“And I should never get back to Kansas,” said Dorothy.
ready to depart; “if he thinks it does not become the good position he
any, would be of a very fitful cast—an occasional almost oppressive
geniuses late in life and never leaves the commonplace. Sibyl, however,


“Come to lunch some day,” he suggested, as we groaned down in the
Dorian smiled and shook his head: “I am afraid I don’t think so, Lady
all fire and violence, I can never comprehend.”
The Lion also curled himself up to sleep and Toto lay beside him.
      on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother, when
the name of his firm with the address—London, E.C. On the mantelpiece
moment and looked vaguely round upon the wide country which the

“I agree with you,” replied the stranger; “we are
      Mr. Darcy, she saw on looking up that Colonel Fitzwilliam was
thoughts without pronouncing them. “She’s gone—to be sure she is—gone
schoolroom.”
the little creature’s wire prison, and with the wrapped up cage in his
      decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”
Lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, Dorian
sure to be one whom the world did not treat kindly for some reason or
smiling. “I am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin
last, I felt very proud, for I thought I was just as good a man as


in a warning voice. A subdued impassioned murmur was audible in the
      “Well, my dear,” said he, when she ceased speaking, “I have no
faithfully the effect it produced on me.
Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. She seemed to them
Henchard looked down upon him in silence, and their eyes met. “O
He was disturbed by another knock at the door, and rose to open it,
      Miss Bennet accepted her aunt’s invitation with pleasure; and the
(foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore happiness to
good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our
hampered, burdened, cursed as I am? Besides, since happiness is
Three o’clock struck, and four, and the half-hour rang its double
the temptations of this life. We might have had, we all had from time
she added, “C’est comme cela que maman faisait, n’est-ce pas,
thoughts, than as agents to reveal his own: the which combination of
      admiring Mrs. Phillips’s manners and politeness. He protested

straw and cannot be easily damaged. There are worse things in the world
write. The others write the poetry that they dare not realize.”
      removed, her other sister, from whose disposition greater evil
“I am coming!” I cried. “Wait for me! Oh, I will come!” I flew to the

my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil’s work you are up
girl.
to falter. At last, having held a document before her glasses for



most pleasant. I am so glad I’ve seen him.”
      in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody;
Miss Eyre. I have surely not been dreaming, have I? Sometimes I half
say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is

with acute distress. When I did speak, it was only to express an
secrets. The hummed song went on—
Sundays were dreary days in that wintry season. We had to walk two

three large resolves—one, to make amends to his neglected Susan,

      Elizabeth was distressed. She felt that she had no business at
“Don’t bring Tom,” I warned her.
Thus would the girl, who was his only friend, be withdrawn from him by
Chicago.

discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when


It was not till the third day that he ventured to go out. There was
      the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of seeing

woman and I wouldn’t presume to do such a thing. But there’s such a

ear. Then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a
Lucetta’s hand.
“That is not saying much. Your pleasures, by your own account, have
the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made


a large, loud roar, which was so fierce and dreadful that Toto jumped
waited for some minutes listening. He could hear nothing: the night was
      appear far.”

their sockets in attending to the details of my employment. The
to need sympathy, that, so far from venturing to offer him more, I
      lively, sportive, manner of talking to her brother. He, who had
“He intended me to go with him to India.”
when he was about eighteen.
      by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the
figure, her child, that the absence of certain facts within her
thoughts were running another way.
      could be either said or done on my part that might offer
heart plainly; at the moment I felt calmer and cooler than he: I had
      introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. Darcy was delighted
besides, in eight years she must be so changed.” I now gently assured
sought one who would sympathise with and love me. Behold, on these desert
it. He may be stern; he may be exacting; he may be ambitious yet; but
      daughters on the brink of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a
purple china dog with an extra-large head, which came to the wall and
with the exception of an occasional snore that revealed their presence.
“Ten minutes past two, sir,” answered the man, looking at the clock and
them on special days of the week.



      diversion, and perfectly compatible with the profession of a

Once I wrote down on the empty spaces of a timetable the names of
Farrington’s face. Then he imitated Farrington, saying, _“And here was
Monkeys to help them, and find out whether he kept his promises or not.
      it when Mr. Collins first came to Hunsford.”



moved.


another part of the country altogether. But he could not help thinking
Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and
have invented a realism that is vulgar, an ideality that is void.
married man you will shun me, keep out of my way: just now you have
heavy scent of the roses seemed to brood over everything.
But won’t you join me at supper, now ’tis waiting and all?”

degrees various facts came out which excited public indignation in a
“I resumed my notice of you. There was something glad in your glance,
of Judas, that grew out of the panel, and seemed gathering life and
      pleasant in General ——’s regiment.”
it?” she cried. “Is there nobody to do it—not one?”

sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How horrible that was!
niche and a straying out into the meadow; and a sudden stop full in

cruel cross of fate. I believed he was naturally a man of better
      with her father, their indignation would hardly have found
exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose
spent under your gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the
of the best, paid for them as he stood in the passage, and turned to
supplied in his contracts. I’ve seen the sun rise over Durnover Moor
V
“Yes,” she said, “and I have just finished it.”

for him as man, and he the man standing as master, with my house and my
“Jane, I excuse you for the present: two months’ grace I allow you for
A shade of mockery relieved the servility of his manner. To save

“But we mustn’t be late,” said Mr Power earnestly, “because it is sure
“I will tease you and vex you to your heart’s content, when I have
studio, and as soon as I had got rid of the intolerable fascination of
think to check; they might germinate and bear fruit if they could.

“Is Miss Temple as severe to you as Miss Scatcherd?”
XVIII.
wished to ease her arms. The man continued—
I perceived that Bessie’s glance, though it expressed regard, did in no
The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted in the west,
I had ever heard from it before.”
before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts of Thornfield
“What shall we do?” asked the Tin Woodman.

“And who else?”



      the long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr.
even John’s own gruff tones. There were exclamations of “What a mercy
couch on which two young women were buoyed up as though upon an

everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of
two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious
probably take the veil.”
aunt.
her fears, nor aid in her preparations; so I bore with her
“Wasn’t that good of him?” said my aunt.
you lend a hand in public-houses. Then I hear you talk like a
against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof
tired with strolling through Paris, so I sat down in her boudoir; happy
Nature did it. And then, after all, I go too fast in my conclusions:
or something. Do you notice what he’s got about improving his mind? He
      make him forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and
“Royalties may not abdicate,” fell as a warning from pretty lips.
me with you: it was mere folly to attempt the interview to-night, and
      even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on
hall-door was fastened; having taken the key from the lock, she led the
      Mr. Gardiner promised every assistance in his power. Elizabeth,
herself on my knee; then, folding her little hands demurely before her,
should like to write a novel certainly, a novel that would be as lovely
Wizard, I must admit.”
He rushed at him and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind
Suddenly Mr. Sloane and the lady walked down the steps and mounted
more of Mrs. Fairfax; I thought no more of Grace Poole, or the laugh:
      Elizabeth jumped out; and, after giving each of them a hasty


with me any more. Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this
observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if there was any

      of feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the
Hallward’s garden had first stirred within him the passion for
suddenly awakened. His finely chiselled nostrils quivered, and some
      idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in
“I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books. They produced
      that every possible attention might be paid to the sick lady and her
he took them off and wiped them to see the protecting canvas unrolled
My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I

      small importance.”
all—though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. You
sentiment!—no regret! I will endure only sense and resolution. Recall
Reader, it is not pleasant to dwell on these details. Some say there is

that graceful wave of the hand that was always so characteristic of
conducted in silence: tiens-toi tranquille, enfant; comprends-tu?”


      heard of him before his entrance into the ——shire Militia, in

had bewitched my horse: I am not sure yet. Who are your parents?”

Elizabeth-Jane—such dreams are not for you!” She tried to prevent
of light and thought, pure as when it left the Creator to inspire the
least solicitous in matters religious.
      “No, I should have turned in a moment.”
      and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the
mean her no good. He was a gentleman, and he hated him for that, hated

and burnt vinegar warned me when I came near the fever room: and I
that Mrs. Henchard decided, for good or for ill, to send Elizabeth-Jane
      She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his
The three days were, as she had foretold, busy enough. I had thought
is, is that I wish to get a glimpse of the sea every day.”
not let it come across our three lives and mar them.”

incredulous of my sanity.

      expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they
should have a pot of money waiting for him if Kelso did the right thing
      stairs. Her mother impatiently met her at the door of the
work was not heavy, but it had been much hindered on account of the
      me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be
      attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his

      Miss Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the
“The grass looks fine, if that’s what you mean.”
directions carefully and put the Cap upon her head.

leaning back in his chair and smiling reflectively at the ceiling,
the street he heard many groups and couples bidding one another
I think, moreover, that Nature was not to him that treasury of delight

incident ought not to be neutralised by replacing with something more
to brave it and offer her a brilliant life. But the young men whom she
But this murder—was it to dog him all his life? Was he always to be
she cried out:

did she say in answer? Perhaps you forgot all about it.”
Joseph was quite as blank as the other in his reply.


“Indeed! Then she is not your daughter?”


      enough to hold her tongue before the servants, while they waited

A little farther on Dorothy met a most beautifully dressed young
      “And pray, may I ask?—” But checking himself, he added, in a
friendly smiles. To live amidst general regard, though it be but the
and his death was shocking.”

of the step!”
No need to cower behind a gate-post, indeed!—to peep up at chamber
wants to pass an opinion on his choice. But I did not like to go till I

      loo table, however, did not appear. Mr. Darcy was writing, and

sullied. Mr. Rochester let him sit three minutes after he had swallowed
covered Gatsby with his expressive nose.
      “But it is not merely this affair,” she continued, “on which my

subject is to be tabooed. As for omens, there is no such thing as an
inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be
looking for copy and sometimes not finding it: and then, always to have
distinguishable from the trees; so dank and green were its decaying


“No, I cannot stay; I have only brought you a little parcel my sisters
      the latter with regard to new furniture.

was falling and in a few minutes they would be lighting the gas: then

against him, my son. He was your father, and a gentleman. Indeed, he
indolence and complaints than if no such murmuring, lounging object had
the Pope, the late Pope. I remember it well. Upon my word it was
the heat, one small sail crawled slowly toward the fresher sea.
He rose, and with a stride reached me.
“Julia,” said Aunt Kate summarily, “and here’s Mr Browne and Miss
“Have you seen Oz?”
One afternoon the daughter was not indoors when Henchard came, and he
through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the
Ignatius Gallaher. “I didn’t know your address or I’d have done so at

had already taken the yards and stores, had acquired possession of the
them up, deluged the bed and its occupant, flew back to my own room,


his ear that Mr. Rochester is come and wishes to see him: show him in
had. Miss Miller was now the only teacher in the room: a group of great

“Mr. Briggs intimates that the answer to his application was not from
      reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy

in lying on the sofa, fretting about the dulness of the house, and
Oliver and his daughter lived. I hid my eyes, and leant my head against

      Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested
      solace was visiting and news.
she answered him from the stairs. There had been affection in it, and
      “From what we have seen of him,” continued Mrs. Gardiner, “I
and partly because he has painful thoughts, no doubt, to harass him,
Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I
of sweethearts.
      Gardiner. You are not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”
“Take care, Basil. You go too far.”
interest at all in the East End. For the future I shall be able to look

      the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached
      pains me to offend you. But amidst your concern for the defects
Chapter 49
“My dear father, you are mistaken; Justine is innocent.”
seemed like the murmur of their voices, rising and swelling a little

“And make me your private secretary, John.”

“I don’t trust him, old sport.”
despicable. By one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps
Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through

He started on foot, two mornings before St. Martin’s-tide, allowing
nine o’clock when he reached her door. The answer brought him was that
Then Oz got into the basket and said to all the people in a loud voice:
my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror. Fortunately, as I spoke
mistrustful scruple.”
that, when what had happened was what I could not cure.”
enjoyments.
“He means to give the whole school a treat at Christmas.”
can go down there and put up there as if it were a hotel and live on
      Lucases came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were
out of our race. Perhaps we never really had it. The terror of society,


perfectly silent. He listened again: perfectly silent. He felt that he
      lovers carry every thing their own way. I shall offer to pay him
She pushed me towards him. I thought Diana very provoking, and felt
      fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not



The suspense became unbearable. Time seemed to him to be crawling with
twittering in the blossom-blanched orchard trees, whose boughs drooped
atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country. I did not
      But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their

      his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known till
I smiled incredulously.
occupied the enviable position in the attic. “There—now I have got ’em
nursery, while my cousins were constantly in the drawing-room. Not a
      aunt, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles
desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power. I expressed
      from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant
himself asleep in a minute.

      _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the
“You will be very welcome,” answered Dorothy, “for you will help to
      disappointed.



entailed on me! Bertha Mason, the true daughter of an infamous mother,
      them, because Wickham has not sixpence of his own. The kindness
“There is no road,” answered the Guardian of the Gates. “No one ever
light blue eyes.
“Never mind, Mr. Rochester: it is in no way interesting to you to know
“Yes,” he continued, “I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your
confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of
of my business; I am sent to nurse you and get you well; I do my duty
      “This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did every
The hedge of his garden formed an arch over the entrance, and a door
Miller walked from class to class, hushing this indefinite sound.
homewards, when tales were told. Henchard had not called on Lucetta
carriage at his own back, he had secreted among his tools a few of


that she got on well with her three mistresses. They were fussy, that
a tyro; he lifted one of the seals with his penknife, peeped in at the
“Not at all!” replied Henchard hotly. “But there, there, I don’t wish
to the tapestried room, with its great bed and its pictorial cabinet.
badly-shaped rakes, shop-worn leggings, and time-stiffened water-tights
When she walked abroad she seemed to be occupied with an inner chamber
Having crossed the marsh, I saw a trace of white over the moor. I
go alone. But she said nothing to show that the place of meeting was

people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good. Her name
had long since returned, and all hopes had centred upon Henchard.
“Where did she do that?” said the other magistrate.
He looked at it again as it lay on an adjoining table. The fur was of a
one fine morning—
mind: he seemed to read the glance, answering as if its import had been
that had been discovered stored in a disused attic at Selby Royal. As
agrees with your statement, you shall be publicly cleared from every

annoyed and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired the way to the inn, but
It was a very tall tree, and the trunk was so smooth that no one could
its shelter, and ordered to begin, and where the tables had stood a

noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant
Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into
Gatsby looked at me questioningly. He wanted to go and he didn’t see

where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the
she gave no hint of it—indeed, I was almost surprised into murmuring
“No, thank you!”
hands of the Wicked Witch of the West, who made us enslave the Winkies,
morning of the second day I awoke and found the balloon floating over a



the interview, when the old man addressed me.
and were descending again when Lucetta, now much recovered, recollected
third storey were ransacked, and their contents, in the shape of
      not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his
in wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors that were accumulated

“The old schoolroom, Mr. Dorian?” she exclaimed. “Why, it is full of
      presence of mind! No, no; I feel he may defy us there. And as to



summer until he fell just short of being news. Contemporary legends
      whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved her to


      every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He
the care of the linen and the inspection of the dormitories: but I had
from his lips fell the words of the Bible: never did his fine voice
dark-complexioned, wore the silver badge of a cricket club in his cap.
model father. By paying a small sum every week into a society, he


this sleepless night: I wanted to hear his voice again, yet feared to

      “Now I am quite happy,” said she, “for you will be as happy as
day to day: they always ran on the same theme—herself, her loves, and
dreaded; now I regained the faculty of reflection.
      persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, she
he was, that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired
the house; or let it off. I can never submit to do that—yet how are we
“It cannot.”

warrld.”
see that.”
regularly. It was hard work—a hard life—but now that she was about to
heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures; to see
hand to feel the dark mass before me: I discriminated the rough stones
cabinets which held his massed suits and dressing-gowns and ties, and
“Now,” he continued, again addressing me, “I have received the

nearly three hours. They agreed to break off their intercourse: every
was prevalent in the hall of the house. But he played too fiercely for
with a solid, sticky bob of red hair, and a complexion powdered milky
oblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided an outlet for
addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent
      I have considered her as one of the handsomest women of my

“If you let any one have it but me, Basil, I shall never forgive you!”
Henchard used. Elizabeth’s back was turned when her mother opened the

death. Your child died; she had another, and all went well. But a time
I went by, and I got him to come back; and I took down the boards from

beginning to cry.
broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent,
showed! The one charm of the past is that it is the past. But women
feasible? Yes—yes—the end is not so difficult; if I had only a brain
“She won’t go on. She must get her eight guineas.”
“I have always liked you as you were,” said Dorothy simply.
“And why couldn’t he have a voice too?” asked Freddy Malins sharply.
      Elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and,
don’t you think if I married her she would regenerate me with a
to use it as he had done. He watched me a second, then saying,
      who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?”

be you. Do you think I can wait when business is in question?”
      “It must have been his sister’s doing. They were certainly no
he said, so much as looking at a nice young girl, at her nice white
“It’s a very nice air,” said Mary Jane. “I’m sorry you were not in
      and in spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a
hear regularly from you. You must pardon me if I regard any
money, and why should we stay?”
continue the part a little longer.”


fence.... I took it like a lamb, for I saw it could not be settled
attention for a time. It was well I secured this forage, or both she,

followed.
them. The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit

“Very well, sir.”
The clatter of forks and spoons began again. Gabriel’s wife served out
foolishly. She was only a year older than he was, but she knew so much

      him by Mrs. Reynolds was of no trifling nature. What praise is
“Yes.”
      They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the
      welcome them, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in her face, was
feeble-minded wailings and selfish lamentations as well as I could, and
he had not taken upon himself to arrive at such a juncture. However,
      pursuit of the officers. There was another reason too for her
and fast from terror. But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all
      in as it ought to be. It was only said, ‘Lately, George Wickham,
Georgiana: you perform your own part in life and burden no one.
remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. Come to
you don’t mind it or think of it again for a long while. O no, I don’t
soul; I sank in deep mire: I felt no standing; I came into deep waters;
contrasted well with the jetty mass of her curls.”
He kissed me repeatedly. When I looked up, on leaving his arms, there
The answer was evasive. I should have liked something clearer; but Mrs.
      several that she would sing again, she was eagerly succeeded at
The place was unchanged; the same larches sighed the same notes; but
lunch with me,’ I said. He ate more than four dollars’ worth of food
A messenger was despatched to Budmouth, late as it had grown; the night
      drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her for a
aerial-grey eyes. The instant that she was gone Henchard’s state showed
mind the common hazards of trade!”
and houses and bridges were all painted bright red, just as they had

his ears where it curled slightly beneath the groove left by his hat.
      long was the interval of tranquillity; for, when supper was over,
their nature. Wholly untaught, with faculties quite torpid, they seemed
      direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of it. In talking
outside them a long while.
duplicity.
“God sees everything,” repeated Wilson.
to stay another week. Her plans required all her time and attention,
part there was now again repose; and yet, whenever he thought of
fresh for the frowning—where it guarded the forlorn hope of solitude,
precaution, desirous to ascertain if any bedroom window-blinds were yet
young man, if this holds good for the bulk, as it has done for the
built of kneaded clay originally faced with a trowel, had been worn by
masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands.”
      She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself;



sat on a chair in the doorway and stared at the people and the cars
      him, and sat down again by her sister.
      “With my mother up stairs. She will be down in a moment, I dare

In her turn, Helen Burns asked me to explain, and I proceeded forthwith
neither diamond ring nor gold bracelet; portray faithfully the attire,

transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that Basil


hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin, how much you

nearly of the same magnitude. The dusk of evening was the proper hour
at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome by sleep.
and fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed at night. A universe of
with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the

they’re tennis shoes, and I’m sort of helpless without them. My
of some two or three rooms fitted up for the accommodation of the
friends, Mr Cunningham, Mr M’Coy and Mr Power had disclosed to Mrs

      Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else,


Rochester at Thornfield Hall.”
friendly talk, you know, in a common-sense way.”
Elizabeth-Jane’s hair—didn’t you tell me that Elizabeth-Jane’s hair
And yet what a subtle magic there was in them! They seemed to be able

was sunless, even in summer time; in spring, white frosts lingered here
sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before. At first his

how she was repaid.
jewels and richest robes, and resolves to meet the false one that night

      particularly after her. But this idea was soon banished, and her
showed bright against the green grass and the yellowing grain.
      some confusion, lest they had been overheard.
      half-an-hour. But nothing can be done—I know very well that
thing. Enough is as bad as a meal. More than enough is as good as a
“Because of all Wizards you are the greatest, and alone have power to

      Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist
drunken woman in a white evening dress. Her hand, which dangles over
for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in
oh! That I could, with the extinction of your miserable existence, restore
along the road—not from a general curiosity by any means—but in the
She riveted a searching gaze on her brother’s face. “And what then?”
only guide. I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass

few days until he ran away—and an old Dodge and a Finnish woman, who

      pales opposite the Parsonage.
      “The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
on.
look, she had not slept all the previous night, and this had produced

the “stony street” of L——.
error enmity grew.
“Don’t you call me ‘old sport’!” cried Tom. Gatsby said
approached what was of humble dwellings surely the humblest. The walls,
“Oh, that’s all right,” he said carelessly. “I don’t want to put you
the big panic—the panic of the war.”
all a good dinner, with three kinds of cake and four kinds of cookies,
“Jane!”
      away much of her ill-will, and she was preparing to see him with

gets crisp in the fall.”
Dorian shook his head. “You must not ask me that, Basil. I could not
since the day Mr Alleyne had overheard him mimicking his North of
“Good morning, good morning,” said the stranger with profuse

consider the effects of what I was now doing. Three years before, I was
showy, but she was not genuine: she had a fine person, many brilliant
      Elizabeth’s instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman
on an instrument. So thoroughly subdued was he that he remained on the
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded
Then a low, quiet voice came from the Ball of Fire, and these were the
might have been one of the crises of my life. But, because the offer
Even now, though she was over nineteen, she sometimes felt herself in

 Introduction
he held it, the more he seemed to covet it. “It is like!” he murmured;
between our lives be kept secret outside this isle. Speak of it I know
“All have not your powers, and it would be folly for the feeble to wish
“I thank you for the proposal, Mr. Rivers, and I accept it with all my
Mrs Donnelly said _“Do, please, Maria!”_ and so Maria had to get up and
promised to reveal to her on the following day. My father was in the
in a trice. Jane” (he turned to me for the first time since his

and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your
see a bit of life and the world before I put my head in the sack—if I
contradictory theories and floundering desperately in a very slough of
The word “sensuous” had the effect of further disquieting Tom, but

      time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
better read than I was; but with eagerness I followed in the path of
very first day you came to this country.”
      perhaps agreeable—allowing something for fortune and figure.”
I know. Now, won’t you have a little something before you go?”
TWO GALLANTS
“Hulking,” insisted Daisy.
house of an aunt at Chêne, a village situated at about a league from
the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top
admired the gardens, the sparkling odour of jonquils and the frothy


Voices were borne over to them at that instant on the wind and
in when I called now. It is you, Lucetta, who are doing wrong. It is
      endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her

as if it had not been lived in for years. A faded Flemish tapestry, a
twinkled under a pair of bushy brows, said solemnly, and in a bass
such an one?”
      creature in the room that he asked a second time. First of all,
ragged edge of the universe—so I decided to go East and learn the bond
kindly influence ceased to act—I found myself fettered again to grief
      would have no charms for _me_—I should infinitely prefer a book.”

express. He kissed her again and again.

      Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here,
Possibly he had spoken to nobody on the coach, but buried his grief in
yet he felt afraid. He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the
latterly she had begun to relent a little; and when she saw me come in
vote and influence at the coming election in the Royal Exchange Ward.

there was not enough of him for his wife. He was glad a little later
      never seen anything but affability in her. She had always spoken
its downy red hairs and its “_doigts de faune_.” He glanced at his own
gas-lamps flickered and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their
no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me. Sometimes
while she looked up at him and nodded in agreement.
      affection, she now saw the object of open pleasantry. Her mind
was to bring needless humiliation upon her he loved, if not to court
up as if afraid of being inadvertently trodden upon. Pilot pricked up
studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were
women around the doorways. A white apron is a suspicious vesture in

the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my

over the spirits of his guests; and his re-entrance was sure to give a
enthusiasm.

through, or what you still suffer.”

Christian labourer’s task of tillage is appointed him—the scantier the
      of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more
      as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at
strange stories that were told about her lovers. Had he something of
he _saw_ nothing, he returned and sighed.
Thornfield against me and pointing me out another road; and Mr.
gladness akin to rapture, as they were unfolded to me, are among the

there. Neither Bessie nor any one else will go into it at night, if
There was one thing to be done before I left, an awkward, unpleasant
was when I heard your house had fallen on the Wicked Witch of the East.
you were here then, as well as all the rest.”
look after you, and not suffer you to devote yourself to a blind
daughter, and whose kindness, whose generosity the unhappy girl repaid
poor Madame Joubert! I see her yet in her raging passions, when we had
position and fortune is often advisable in such cases; and there are
How late it was! He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his
“And afterwards?” I urged.
happiness. Frank would take her in his arms, fold her in his arms. He
      expression of general complaisance, and in all that he said she
I rose. “Stop!” exclaimed Mrs. Reed, “there is another thing I wished

“You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray—far too

must get a place to lie down in,” she murmured. “I have seen—Mr.
going to leave you soon.”
wheezy hall-door bell clanged again and she had to scamper along the

“and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps you will hardly
bent to replace in the music-stand the old leather-bound songbook that
builded, or such like?” asked the other.
dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage,
“Then I’ll see about it this very day.” He seemed relieved to get her
or be respectable. Youth! There is nothing like it. It’s absurd to talk

      and loudly seconding the invitation.
“Yes. Let’s have it again, stranger,” said the glazier, a stout,
a good class in the Natural Science Tripos of his year. Indeed, he was

“Yes,” she said hastily; “half-past four.”
      you know, and I am sure I never want to see him again. But,
front of me. Life has revealed to them her latest wonder. As for the
Never once in their dialogues did I hear a syllable of regret at the
about here and there in groups, their plates and glasses in their
“O no, I am not.”
He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there.

lately died, and bequeathed some of her property to me. I will not
express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with
This did not hurt the Scarecrow, but it surprised him, and he looked
“What is the employment you had in view, Mr. Rivers? I hope this delay
      “You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly
shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross
      since _her_ coming away.
earshot, at once led the three young ladies into the back room. The

momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of
      was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond

him ‘Do that,’ and the thing has been done. But I cannot give him
rode past the farm this morning, I saw her white face at the window,

      Between the two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a
daughter and a quick glance through the open door of the hall showed
through the window, followed by all his band.

cute and that was not true of Gretta at all. It was Gretta who had

      in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself
his feet and approached me.
      appearance, walking with another officer on the other side of the

 CHAPTER I.
In other people’s presence I was, as formerly, deferential and quiet;

“Maybe I can manage that they’ll not be parted,” said Farfrae. “I want



six or seven and thirty; she was a woman of robust frame,
      since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many
“I’m all run down.”
prisoner in his dungeon.
other without desiring a more intimate union, may not such also be our
      certainty. Absence had increased her desire of seeing Charlotte
that leg mutton,” he added to my aunt.
      their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift
portion. Many a time I have shared between two claimants the precious
in the studio and talk of a thousand things. Now and then, however, he
A MOTHER

all wiped out forever.”

      assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could
had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw
scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested
Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
fortunes. Old Lord Ingram’s estates were chiefly entailed, and the
the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like
both of them cried, “Oh, my!” as soon as they looked over the wall.
      handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman. Mr.
      “And what did she say?”
“I like it,” she answered, after a pause of a second or two, during
of your great renunciation. Even as a beginning, it is poor. Besides,
she alone rivalled it in colour.
“Blood built it, and Wealth enjoys it” however vague his opinions of
These words cut me: yet what could I do or I say? I ought probably to



spirit that addresses your spirit; just as if both had passed through
      be sure! but from what the report of their engagement could
killed a man,” and had the effect of stimulating my curiosity. I would
      unsettled in the extreme. They were always moving from place to
but a prospect of one day bringing Mr. Rochester an accession of
“And should you like to fall into that pit, and to be burning there for
disturbance, and place safe barriers between herself and a frivolous
“You don’t need them. You are learning something every day. A baby has
“I don’t think I can ever meet Mr. Henchard. He is not how I thought he
Perhaps you don’t know it?” he said, in tones of extreme delicacy. “And
refusing assistance, sealed up the sheet, directed it, and locked it in
especially as it would involve humiliation. His daughter he had
had a pompadour—or a yacht.”

the live embers. I found that the berries were spoiled by this
“I could decide if I were but certain,” I answered: “were I but
and wind had changed her, too. They had taken the sparkle from her eyes
insisted then on blindfolding Maria and leading her up to the table to
Again the poor man groaned; he looked as if he dared not move; fear,

dinner?”

adhesion to my master: for him I was no more to see; for the desperate
      scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible. She

      “There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already,
“No, Miss Jane, not exactly: you are genteel enough; you look like a
      “And _that_ I suppose is one of your sisters.”


The room was large and stifling, and, though it was already four
returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with
Farfrae came on with one hand in his pocket, and humming a tune in a

pardon. The fact is, once for all, I don’t wish to treat you like an
Three glasses stood at his right hand; but, to his wife’s surprise, the
to tend to the thought that some power was working against him.
shop-people knew it, and had already discounted the chance of her being
      every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here.
Elizabeth-Jane’s even more than on either’s. Shorn one by one of all
      her at Netherfield at last.’ She did indeed. I do think Mrs. Long
      Miss Bingley was uncivil to _her_, and more teasing than usual to

“Was it your mama who taught you that piece?” I asked.
acquired a morally real and justifiable right to her by his
well as any of us. Her constitution is both sound and elastic;—better

they were awakened by the crowing of a green cock that lived in the
heart for so many years that image of her lover’s eyes when he had told

And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?
all get ready, for it will be a long journey.”
      of one of the officers’ wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk
      “Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to
      your declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared
to see him alone. He says things that annoy me. He gives me good
      saying what I think of persons you esteem. Stop me whilst you
The man glanced at the two clients who were standing at the counter as
liar?”
“O, on the continent,” murmured Aunt Julia, nodding her head slowly.
neighbour to take his place, he found opportunity to leave the chair.
small whity-brown boys, who came up and asked for “A ha’p’orth,
labour, not for love. A missionary’s wife you must—shall be. You shall
“This parlour is not his sphere,” I reflected: “the Himalayan ridge or
      preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud. Mrs. Bennet
“There are no more,” said she; and I put it in my pocket and turned my
spectroscopic gaiety.
the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality

lights were still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals
matter enough. That such a poor fragile woman should be his choice was



      like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a
      Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her
really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the
right, never fear. He left her crying on the bed and moaning softly:
which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end
occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and
obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from the well, and
the policeman turned away.
every night she’d bring me and paying the tram out and back. And one
      I do not know a place in the country that is equal to
      seeing the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time


      “If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried her husband
traverse the unclouded heaven which coloured it: he removed his hat,

either; and she told me to remember that she had always been my best
“Did she send you here, Bessie?”
benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto

ripple of light broke from the disturbed coal: the glare, however, as
“Ask Blanche; she is nearer you than I.”
flag. If I had time, and was not in mortal dread of some prating prig

them again he wondered greatly that they could leave the beautiful City

“Yes; with the blessing of God leather breeches shall go.”
familiarly to the table.
help of the Holy Spirit to subdue the anger I had roused in him, and
      “On the evening before my going to London,” said he, “I made a
doze, that my dear husband, who died fifteen years since, has come in
Next day he set out upon the last stage, and was soon within the
in this intercourse, of a kind now tasted by me for the first time—the
“No, sir.”
      which might once have been handsome. Her air was not


what you see me now.”
apart from him in another world, and the shock had made him physically


night?—when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She


      mind must be materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly
“Yes, sir, he has lived ten years in the family.”
sought, too, a phial of oil and a feather; I oiled the key and the
a note, saying when and how he will see us—or _me_.”
Now the group outside the window had within the last few minutes been
“It is, especially such a language as this crabbed but glorious
sequel of a tale: on reflection, I find the matter will be better
upon the young woman’s head and hair, which was worn loose, so that the
Lord Henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery through his
“I must tell you something,” she said. “I wonder if you have suspected

shone out plainly above the vivid orange tie he wore. Between these
considered a painful position, for the sake of making his fortune: what
he said in a calm indifferent voice. The presence of a third person in
“Mistress, know yourself; down on your knees and thank Heaven fasting
tongue to my ear (I am glad it is not naturally a silent one): all the
      and ceremonious politeness of her curtsey and address to his
      vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were
friends, my wife, and my beloved country; again I saw the benevolent
What should that present be? He walked up and down the street,
and stretched out his arms. And when the crows saw him they were
      well know, we go out so little, that it is very improbable that
in the half darkness. A large photograph of an elderly man in yachting


I agreed with him that it was but a love of the senses. I comprehended


“Yes,” answered the Scarecrow. “Everything is green here, while in the
prepared to return to the house; again, however, I heard him call
grave.”

“She does, though. The trouble is that sometimes she gets foolish
      Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her

northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the
the sacraments. Her faith was bounded by her kitchen but, if she was
      vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable;
puddings and knitting stockings, to playing on the piano and
Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments

greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than his asseverations,

pain sometimes. Then my sole relief was to walk along the corridor of

“But the instrument—the instrument! God, who does the work, ordains the
start at four, and if you’re not here, stand clear. I’ll mortify thy
He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when I
feared to wake the sleepers and yet must needs call forth sleep from
knew what she was going to do. He was clutching at some last hope and
“I thank my Maker, that, in the midst of judgment, he has remembered
“O, my dear Miss Templeman—what’s the matter?” cried her companion.

marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq. Her ugly

be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste
friends.
      sure, to oblige us for one half-hour.”

“What a dreadful noise! it went quite through me!” exclaimed Abbot.
      to be in company with either of them. Their society can afford no
feared Adèle never would have a governess to stay if she knew with what
strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut,
      “I am not.”
slowly stirred the contents of the pot. The dull scrape of her large
was discovered?”
was no land. One gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged
if they should ha’ been doing it!” Even he could not admit that the
“No—no—Jane; you must not go. No—I have touched you, heard you, felt
      smile they were told that it was ten miles round. It settled the
cloud shrouding his eyrie. The thing delivering such utterance must
The soldier now blew upon a green whistle, and at once a young girl,
Mr. Rochester, or sitting like a second Danae with the golden shower
This evening motes of straw lay around, and other signs of the premises
Poor Sibyl! What a romance it had all been! She had often mimicked
the house: a little time-piece in the room and the old clock in the
it is in my power to seize the monster, be assured that he shall suffer
were really alarmed; for it revealed to them that the bull was an old
 Chapter 19
of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so
signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness. It turns from me; it
      “Of whom does Jane ever think ill? And who is there, whatever
able to come down; Diana took my hand: she shook her head at me.
“Yes; with the right eye I see a glow—a ruddy haze.”

suspended, and the entertainment closed, the food to be distributed

“There is one thing I have not done; and yet it is important,” she said
only make himself ridiculous by quoting poetry to them which they could
creature,” and she “adored him;” and Mary instanced his “pretty little
their intercourse. Friendship between man and man; what a rugged
“But it is true that I am a wretch. I have murdered the lovely and


they were going to enter by the side-aisle door and witness the
“You are mad, I tell you—mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to

      enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I
truck, using the strings they had brought. One end of a string was tied

her. But I am slow-thinking and full of interior rules that act as
and the only difference between Donald’s movements now and formerly was

obliterate Henchard’s name, though its letters dimly loomed through
      Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference

dozed; and she spoke on the subject no more.

      he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without


“You mean to say you don’t know?” said Miss Baker, honestly surprised.
sides of Jura, and the bright summit of Mont Blanc. I wept like a
the stroke of twelve now, and you have been travelling all day: you
beast, you know. Besides, Dorothy will need someone to protect her.”
and each is happy in having a kingdom to rule besides, I think I should
sheltered market-room provided for them. Here they surged on this one
out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He read
accustomed to marry their governesses.”
      when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better

As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression of
you any longer.”
amused his guests during the summer, and the chauffeur helped him to
company,—to conduct the ladies to their rooms, &c. Adèle, too, would be

and producing a gold-latten matchbox, “the only way a woman can ever
The noise in the auditorium had risen to a clamour when Mr Fitzpatrick
“I should wish her to be brought up in a manner suiting her prospects,”
trusses of hay were tossed anew in and out of the barns, and the
causes of life, we must first have recourse to death. I became
by her late husband?” His eye fell on Elizabeth’s clothes, which,
whatever charter you might grant under coercion, your first act, when
soaking wet with the floods of yesterday. The stronger among the girls
no longer fears to waken by any sound he can utter—by any movement he

had asked to see the clergyman. “This, then, was his father’s

“They are bringing it down, sir.”
      manners were always so pleasing, that had his character and his
break it under her nose.”
“The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The young woman

I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects! I
an hour later, when we walked out of the room, the pearls were around
that was all.
with Western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them. He had the
      “In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.”

demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and
sang to him the divine airs of her native country.
nonchalance of tone, express fully their sentiments on the point,
excited voices, that the scene would remain but a moment, like a

listened eagerly.
of plumcake, parcelled it up and said:
      but though he was now established only as a tenant, Miss Bingley

      His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was
 Chapter 7


case I do fear there will be something found to be different to what
to me, with that discretion I respect in you—with that foresight,
hay. Good night t’ ’ee.”
      After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the
life and happiness: he had sentenced her to ignominy, a death of shame.
cared for Richard Newson?”
“Well, Helen?” said I, putting my hand into hers: she chafed my fingers
still pondering the signification of “Institution,” and endeavouring to


if she would cry.
      their personal invitation for the long-expected ball at
vulture, hunger, thus sank beak and talons in my side.
      weather was so fine for the time of year that she had often great
would have been my admiration—the more truly tranquil my quiescence.
Gatsby’s house was still empty when I left—the grass on his lawn had
and he was not in the least spoiled by all his good fortune. He
      too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation
“What if I did tell him? That fellow had it coming to him. He threw
inquiries. As soon as the door opened anxious faces confronted his from
could continue my journey. My father’s care and attentions were
there. She couldn’t find him from the top of the steps, and he wasn’t
been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should

to be free, even to license—but you are a visitor, and must go into the
“Wait now, wait now!” said Mr Henchy, getting up quickly. “Did you ever
to any trouble.”

enjoyed these boisterous old games; and therefore the plan of sending a
responded to, must lead, _ignis-fatuus_-like, into miry wilds whence
wouldn’t say a word—instead he began to throw curious, suspicious
wish it more now than ever; since even you cannot explain to me the
“It seems to me a splendid mansion, sir.”
remainder with an accompaniment of secret tears, forced from me by the
personal vanity, that was afforded by the fact of Donald being the
      condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too!) on this
thing as common everyday politeness and gratitude. And if I were in
      to be at variance.—‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’—My mind, however, is now
      “In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as
was a munificent patron of art. He was a most offensive brute, though

“I know what pleasure is,” cried Dorian Gray. “It is to adore some
      till her ladyship’s carriage was ready to take them all home.
      coffee cup himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying:


“What the hell do you know about it?” said Farrington fiercely, turning
for what she had done. Of course he had done it too. His instinct urged
      “Beyond a doubt, they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,” replied

some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry? Was that one of
new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my
“That will not trouble him,” continued the man, “for Oz has a large

performed.”
transactions just completed within had added fever to the original
black dog behind him”—“Three loud raps on the chamber door”—“A light in
      He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with a moment’s
the contrary, I felt better pleased than ever. The equality between her

offered.

slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly. The
at the bottom, took no circuitous course, but flew straight down High
journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few

      hope, quite so easily changed as that implies.”
it’d be too much trouble to have the butler send them on. You see,
“What are the Kalidahs?” asked the girl.
I chose: I had but to go in and to say—
And I came out immediately, for I trembled at the idea of being dragged
Instead of considering how to gather up the load the two men closed in
conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know, that I am

to be blown anywhere about the world.


to keep things to herself: a determined woman. She had married her

“What do you think of that, Crofton?” cried Mr Henchy. “Isn’t that
mixed with an awed pride. I helped him to a bedroom upstairs; while he
“Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings. Soon
particular.”
type. All art is at once surface and symbol. Those who go beneath the
globe. Its productions and features may be without example, as the
      Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she
“Hasten to take off your wet things,” said he; “and before you go,
things. Perhaps he ought not to have answered her like that. But she
wrinkling with mirth, poured out for himself a glass of whisky while
“Is that a portrait of some one you know?” asked Eliza, who had
“darling” on his lips: the best words at my service were “provoking

between me and Miss Templeman. She agrees to be my wife.”
      to the door, my uncle was called away upon business to that
from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell.
nearest baker’s.

“Not quite so much, I think, ma’am.”
She was three days without speaking; but last Tuesday she seemed rather
“You would describe yourself as a mere pagan philosopher,” I said.

at the thin tight lips. She wore the pale blue summer blouse which he
Nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and

“Look here,” he said, in an altered voice—he never called her by name

      half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned

sometimes called in by Mrs. Reed when the servants were ailing: for
away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon

Coming down the steps of the bank he encountered Jopp. The gloomy
the hot whistles of the National Biscuit Company broke the simmering

      infamous, was capable of a turn which must make him entirely
dens where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of
however, he could not do, so adroitly did Henchard keep it in the rear
soldier made them all wipe their feet upon a green mat before entering
that,” I meditated,—“that is, if life be spared me. But I feel mine is
that such is to be your name?”

Meantime, I heard St. John quit his room. He stopped at my door: I
first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret
you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant
“I believe we’ve met somewhere before, Mr. Buchanan.”
“You wish me to defend my throne, then?”
      as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
    Baseball and sports                            4:30-5:00 ”

framed to pacify his guests. I dressed, then, to be ready for

Call up and order some ice for the mint julep.”
      herself as much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for her
“Yes.”
between hills, not high, but steep, and of beautiful forms. We saw
“Show the book.”
      “La!” replied Kitty, “it looks just like that man that used to be
altered. It was not a mere fancy of his own. The thing was horribly
“Nothing—nothing, sir. I am not depressed.”
what we desire. So be of good cheer, my friends, for all will yet be
Henchard, without answering, shook his head as if that were rather a
and feeble ones weep over their destruction. Poetry destroyed? Genius
      “Are you quite sure, ma’am?—is not there a little mistake?” said
fear of being persuaded by you to attempt what I cannot accomplish!”
I had a gold watch-chain: I answered “Yes.”
life. To have ruined one’s self over poetry is an honour. But when did
Bergin. O, that’ll just do now.”

personal safety; which I thought would be effected, if I could only
glossy brown, and, though he was no judge of such articles, he thought
      the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the last

if I were either your real sister, or a man and a clergyman like
“Well, never mind that now,” I interrupted impatiently; “it is enough


“We have a chaise, ma’am, a very handsome chaise.”
as what it was she would never have left me. Never! But how should she

same ideas. No; I think our ideas are quite different. But he has been
unaccustomed part of the theatre with him. He was awfully fond of music
He sipped a little of his drink while Ignatius Gallaher finished his
“My dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize. You will soon be

father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the
of cold meat and bread, in the same penurious proportion observed in
bargainers—as bereaved men do after a while.

“Mr. Dorian Gray does not belong to Blue Books, Uncle George,” said
The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed.
do with our own will. Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old
no harm, now poor Henchard’s gone; though I wouldn’t have done it
Henchard; and that’s all I wanted to do.”
I said nothing.
dejection, he became even gay. Never had he called me more frequently
and, as he stood in the hall giving a last equation to the bows of his
      their happiness.
her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one
Head nor the Lady, for Oz had taken the shape of a most terrible Beast.

leaning on the banisters, listening to something. Gabriel was surprised
shut up, and you are so lonely. I am sure I pity you. Do come and see
leap out imp-like and lace my quivering palm or shrinking neck. I
      not work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should
makes people think that one is a wild shot. And Geoffrey is not; he
“It is partly a charity-school: you and I, and all the rest of us, are
your silver shoes he was very much interested. At last I told him about
was—whether really Farfrae’s after all, or another’s—he exerted himself
gleaming here and there, like jet beads in the heath: I gathered a
“I asked you because I thought you might be able to give me an answer.
On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair.
hear my own; and you have told me nothing of it.”
a body after them into the sunlight. He turned away in horror. It
roughly. When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped
this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships. During the day I was

“Who is that?”
sometimes went there. His father had purchased the estate for the sake
“I have been staying at Budmouth for a few days while my house was
Donald Farfrae was in the minds of both as the innovator, for though
      Clarke’s library.”
      for her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was

      be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love;
from her master’s service. He had almost as much as declared his
Elizabeth-Jane. His acts of that kind had been so slight that the
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe

but that he felt was now vibrating and throbbing to curious pulses.
and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it
relations. I suppose it comes from the fact that none of us can stand

tearing his hands away from Lord Henry’s grasp. “Dead! Sibyl dead! It
“Have as many cloths as you like,” Henchard replied.
      danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and
Thornfield.”

      If, in the explanation of them, which is due to myself, I am
teaching in the college was ended he used to wander down the quays to
security that I shall appear at your breakfast table to finish it. By




married Miss Jane Reed, of Gateshead; the other, John Eyre, Esq.,
be Smith.”
I know not whether the day was fair or foul; in descending the drive, I


a little yourself, if you will be so kind.”
provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes of wine. The

would tear me to pieces and triumph; remember that, and tell me why I
been called careful. He means to marry you?”
“O’Madden Burke will write the notice,” he explained to Mr Holohan,
      figure; but Elizabeth heard not a word, and wholly engrossed by
      father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge—most
crimson double daisies; the sweetbriars gave out, morning and evening,
and I lingered in the garden until the inevitable swimming party had
resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of my life
still, it being that motionless hour of rustic daily life which fills
to take so little! There’s a chance even for thee after this, Nance
unfolded her embroidery, she suddenly took her up thus—
notion which way it lies. But the first thing to do is to cross the
Self-abandoned, relaxed, and effortless, I seemed to have laid me down
this was infrequent; the sort of wisdom which looked from their pupils

question deserves.
in Casterbridge besides Henchard and the close-lipped Elizabeth who
seek for prey. The rivers were covered with ice, and no fish could be
Oz, and claim his promise.”

      been set up as a rival to Jane. No look appeared on either side




Terrace and seized the moments when her daughter’s attention was
single-hearted girl it was a willingness to sacrifice her personal
It was the eve of harvest. Prices being low Farfrae was buying. As was
The patient rose.
no circles were closed against me. I sought my ideal of a woman amongst
      conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the
wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and
so much as that, but heere you go a great way towards it. Well, sir,
      “Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?”
      wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mrs.
It was by this time half-past five, and the sun was on the point of
imagination.

      such a step must make her were it known, she could not help

was mitigated by the fact that certain of those friends who had known


      as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
Henchard went away, concluding that Lucetta had not as yet settled in.
beside it was a picture of the two murdered princes in the Tower which
      perhaps it were better not to force her into accepting me,
perfumed skin. From her hands and wrists too as she lit and steadied
dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen
      Mr. Collins’s reach. This, however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and
is—a liar!”
mistake from first to last, an utter failure.

pavement of the same green marble, and where the blocks were joined

vehicles; two of the cavaliers were young, dashing-looking gentlemen;
OSCAR WILDE
instruments, which procured me great esteem and admiration at the
on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas’ books of voyages.

to read the latter part of the book, with its really tragic, if

the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of poverty


to me, her cast of mind common, low, narrow, and singularly incapable
little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced
      therefore, made up my mind to tell you, that I do not want to

“You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear
be his wife and to live with him in Buenos Ayres where he had a home
      wife, I advise you by all means to refuse him.”
always tapping the ground with his stick, so slowly that I thought he
his own portrait. “How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and
a roll for this handkerchief?”

“Mike, Mike,” she said; “this is getting serious. O!—too serious!”
flock of white sheep turn the corner.
      “To be sure, Lizzy,” said her aunt, “he is not so handsome as

“You see, Jane, the battle is fought and the victory won.”
things that neither of us can ever forget.”


      good conduct, the probity, and honour of his friend, and is
      misunderstand them.”
and perhaps respected. But even if I were condemned to suffer on the
he gave no name, and no message.”
either end of the long couch and she read aloud to him from the
and twilight gathering.
hideous hunger for opium began to gnaw at him. His throat burned and
didn’t meet earlier. But I must leave tomorrow night.”
      usual practice of elegant females.”
private perusal; and, indeed, they contented me amply for the present;
      parties, had belonged to him, by her sister. Her prudent mother,
on past the cottage in which the old local hangman had lived and died,

“Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments.”
      neighbourhood for a proper situation for her daughter, and,
      out.—There is something very pompous in his style.—And what can
The auctioneer selling the old horses in the field outside could be
      of her favourite sister, or the anger which she had herself
      had almost resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked
“Go on,” said Mr O’Connor. “Fire away, Joe.”
mineral water, Myrtle, before everybody goes to sleep.”

trouble,” said Dorian, turning on his heel and going slowly down the
He now resumed the book with which he had been occupied before tea. I
The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and
Never mind the ladies to-night; perhaps you will see them to-morrow:
      receiving them at Longbourn.”

of himself this time. Could he not keep his tongue in his cheek? But
Again I ran, and again returned, bearing an immense mantle lined and
“I said good afternoon,” she faltered.
exhibition was over, and a new dance proposed, and Donald had
appointment with the vicomte for a meeting at the Bois de Boulogne.
undressed; “et alors quel dommage!”
“O, then,” said Gabriel gaily, “I suppose we’ll be going to your
conversation ceased. A pause followed, broken only by the noise of the
to-day. I am awfully obliged to you.”
initial F.; I broke it; the contents were brief.
      _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what
Mr. Briggs sought after you—what he wanted with you.”
      in the world I love, and he is an angel. I should never be happy

words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had

have no end. Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to
degrading. I now hate the recollection of the time I passed with

without reply as without delay.
      everybody, and had so many favourites.
mother of God.”



testimonial of character and capacity, signed by the inspectors of that
in love with each other—at least Tedo and I thought so; we surprised
purpose. The ordinary sitting-room and bedrooms I left much as they
CHAPTER VIII.
      “’Tis too much!” she added, “by far too much. I do not deserve
desire, seemed to me child’s play, ugly monotonous child’s play.
Elizabeth-Jane going up the street. Without any consciousness of what
there is one art left to us that is not imitative! Don’t stop. I want
“I heard from Bessie he was not doing well.”
in common. But the act having lain as dead and buried ever since, the
second—then fell heavily to the floor.
have lived in it a full and delightful life,—momentarily at least. I
was agreed that, immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa
degradation, blent with the physical suffering, form too distressing a
      Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation
mind a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him; and history
      away with her head full of him. She could think of nothing but of
conversation was to brand me as a bad child for ever: now there he was.
being whom I myself had formed, and endued with life, had met me at
a ladder and through a trap-door to the roof of the hall. I was now on
      occasion’s justifying her coming so far alone. The latter was

Mr Cunningham gave a qualified assent.
The door of the front room had been taken off its hinges to give more
      Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained

      of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense.
establishment; these two young men (who were cousins) were also in good

but temper. Now I’m no more to ’ee—I’ll try my luck elsewhere.’”

      “You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon
creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole across me. I
them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that
would do many times, and with joy.




the line at fringe, and had it plain edged, with a little ivory ring

him; but then it came of itself: it was not elicited by meretricious
“Come here quick!” cried Daisy at the window.
company was served in cups of that measure. They were all exactly
      “Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself?”
in short, a volume of a novel of fashionable life was that day
as her glance, as harsh as her features.
unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise, rose proportionably. My

scheme of some sinister intelligence bent on punishing him. Yet they

The Lion now walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.
base, in the shadow of the wall of the Park, he saw some human figures
In such conversation an hour was soon gone: Bessie restored to me my
nor tears move him. No happy reconciliation was to be had with him—no
drawer) to play with, and a story-book for change of amusement; and
Mrs Kearney’s hand and said she would get the other half at the
      frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to keep him to
taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of
everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of
the warrld altogether!”
Lion, and the great beast had opened his mouth to bite the dog, when
granted in honour of the occasion.

“You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one
getting ready. The house I am going into is that one they call
Of course these objections wrought my eagerness to a climax: gratified
scene looked when I viewed it laid out beneath the iron sky of winter,
      wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.”
asked me where I was going and, when I had told him a second time he
“He would discover many things in you he could not have expected to
becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him. With his
dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrilling scorn: “Do
myself; but it appeared he was not in the mood to notice us, for he

      was Elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour, that on
“Very good roads around here.”
In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my dogs died, and I
before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with
his shelves. We practical men like to see things, not to read about

“Well, you can leave me, ma’am: but before you go” (and he retained me
on his face.
to the door.
other ladies.
      yielding—certainly too little for the convenience of the world. I
towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred. Unfeeling,
She turned in some surprise at his presence, and did not answer for an
halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures.
      before she left Hertfordshire, and represent to her the
      am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s
his, which at one moment seemed to mean satisfaction, and at another

silent fervent prayer.

      better. The sisters, on hearing this, repeated three or four
      visitors. The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed
you? Before I could answer that, I should have to see your soul.”
grounds. Before we had been out two hours, we were deep in a
Inside, in the servants’ part of the house, the half-clad domestics

she had produced an effect, a contrast, and it had been done on

from my eyes human tears, and yet filled my heart with divine joy: he
sufficed to the toil, and the toil draws near its close: his glorious
      servants but will give him a good name. Some people call him
circumstances, he was not the man to neglect. Moreover, there was a
“Do you still refuse to do this for me?”
answering a question I put to you some time ago.”

without passing some of their doors, and running the risk of being

‘they looked at my dress and mama’s, as if they had never seen a silk
minutes—so long was the silence protracted. At last I looked up at the
with blue tops, such as every man wore in this country, and the figure

      with at least six officers at once.
Again a head shot swiftly out, and the great Lion went rolling down the
degrees the forms and colours of things are restored to them, and we

“Well,” said the woman, after thinking it over and taking another peep
“Yes, sir.”
“Who are you?” asked the Scarecrow.
extinguish his malice. The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I


grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness
      if Mr. Bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she

“killed a man.” For a moment the set of his face could be described in
Clouston, the usual set. I have asked Lord Grotrian.”
      her. She had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in
      astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of

always been obstinate about being peasantry.
of you? May I ask you why you haven’t made a copy of that contract
’en than a carrion crow.”

hour’s rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly
in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the
interpreting its language). Then take my word for it,—I am not a
walking the streets where their footsteps had clicked together through
“How do you know?—you never tried it. How very serious—how very solemn
“Terribly grave,” echoed Lady Agatha.
“One goin’ each way. Well, she”—his hand rose toward the blankets but
for the first time in his life he was too tired to chase a butterfly

Cupids, one of Lord Henry’s many presents to him, glanced hurriedly
terror. We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour
      circumspect. It is very often nothing but our own vanity that


How the Balloon Was Launched
“Monitors, fetch the supper-trays!”
“And where do you live? Where are your friends?”

      Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure
centre of the bazaar timidly. A few people were gathered about the
hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can

      ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh! my dear father,
      hear. I am going away myself.”

on together, Henchard looking mostly on the ground.
Kingsbridge Station, like a worm with a fiery head winding through the

dead in the midst of her tantrums, and then where would she go? Come,
on the chair-back of the little and lively Amy Eshton; she glances up
on forever seeking, a little wistfully, for the dramatic turbulence of
no time to listen to what they said; other matters called off and
that yacht represented all the beauty and glamour in the world. I
with, so genteel.
bow. “And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt. I am due at
“You will know that soon enough,” replied a man with a hoarse voice.
      get acquainted, and forwarded as much as possible, every attempt
surprising thing was that it hadn’t happened before.
wild primrose plants: I have seen their pale gold gleam in overshadowed




“Certainly.” Mr. Briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket, and read
despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at anyone, but sat motionless,
scientific interest. That such a change should have taken place was
when life is so soon over, and death is so certain an entrance to
overemphasized everything that she had to say. The beautiful passage—


of groping, found the outlet from the attic, and proceeded to descend

not altogether be blamed for what had happened. At last the obstacle


All at once I remembered that it might be Pilot, who, when the

familiar objects from which she had never dreamed of being divided. And

      as Mr. Bingley’s friend, without being heard by either of them.
Her husband regarded the paper as if it were a window-pane through
of a defunct mantelpiece clock, and from this position his distraught
“Nine years is a tolerable time. Was he so very fond of his brother as
lay with my face hidden on her neck. Presently she said, in the



allege for leaving him. I followed with lagging step, and thoughts
these houses, which had older than old-fashioned backs, rose sheer from
A twisted flash of pain shot across the painter’s face. He paused for a
enough! I shall never see ’ee again!” It was, indeed, a hopeless length
upwards. I expected she would show signs of great distress and shame;
“They are more cunning than practical. When they make up their ledger,
      neither of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to
luck. Jimmy understood that the game lay between Routh and Ségouin.
has taken a seat beside Mary Ingram, and is showing her the engravings

      ——shire have left Meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.”
      Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her own
Diana clapped her hands. “That is just what we hoped and thought! And
Janet, you had given the world for love, and considered it well lost?”
“You are a beauty in my eyes, and a beauty just after the desire of my
his face. “Why should you say it—think it?”

abuse, saying that two letters were missing. The man answered that he
There was a short silence. Mr Kernan waited to see whether he would be
      day, as he was going the next morning to London.

“r—” said the policeman, “o—”

drunken men and bargaining women, amid the curses of labourers, the
sundry shops, which would occupy Elizabeth’s time for the next hour or
distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to
or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my

      was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever

top with brains.
was a rigid formalist: no weather ever prevented the punctual discharge
floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers
bargaining with the cabman. The moment was lost in vulgar details. It
      She had not been many hours at home before she found that the

The play-hour in the evening I thought the pleasantest fraction of the
      what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach
spots in the dust, and some garrulous man telling over and over what
      agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great
went into Butler’s in Moore Street—faith, I was genuinely moved, tell
eye; and, while I paused from my sewing, because my fingers quivered at

The company at the Three Mariners were persons of quality in comparison
to play on our Miss Wilsons, and Mrs. Greys, and Madame Jouberts! Mary
Narborough’s drawing-room by bowing servants. His forehead was

Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate,

saw with the other men in the yard Donald Farfrae going in and out the
success. Having sought and obtained an audience of the superintendent
own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally
Duchess.”
I took a seat: St. John stood near me. He looked up the pass and down
That forest-dell, where Lowood lay, was the cradle of fog and fog-bred
closely interlaced vault overhead; to these boughs the canvas had been
      Gardiner could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further
took a kindly interest in their career, not unconnected, perhaps, with

privilege. This precious vessel was now placed on my knee, and I was
when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art,
      the sight of the stranger, and Elizabeth happening to see the
“Well, Henchard is gone,” said Farfrae, shutting the door. “He has done
 Grace
it was merely a very pretty drawing-room, and within it a boudoir, both
      days, however, before they received any invitation thither—for
He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless
got his blood upon my hands.”

confusion was inextricable.
Sometimes in return for his theories she gave out some fact of her own
steeple, for half an hour. A brewer had built it early in the “period”
      Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be his feelings toward her
      told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for
done. And why is it so? Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray
      “Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into

engaged to think of us. The dessert was not carried out till after
it; it had a master: for my part, I liked it better.
Lion gave a great roar and sprang towards them, and the poor Winkies
well-dressed beggar inevitably so. To be sure, what I begged was

gazing into the fire. Someone opened the door of the room and called
      goodness.
dread.”
her the cause of the stewards’ idleness. At first she wondered had she
From the corner of the divan of Persian saddle-bags on which he was
stern zeal woke: he was in deep earnest, wrestling with God, and
analyse it some day. The passion for property is in it. There are many
Everybody was attracted, and some said that her bygone simplicity was
      confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.”
“O no, madam,” said he, becoming embarrassed and deferential at the
habitual sadness marking his strong features. His countenance reminded
become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for
including journeymen out for a holiday, a stray soldier or two come on
was now at last in safe haven. The impulse of gratitude swelled my
blissful and fond moment, bestow on a slave his gold and gems had
“Write to Diana and Mary to-morrow,” I said, “and tell them to come
(John was an old servant, and had known his master when he was the
“Well, that’s respect, I expect,” declared the Clown, and immediately
“To get her out of my bride’s way, who might otherwise walk over her
      stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity, and
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an
astounded. His mouth opened a little, and he looked at Gatsby, and

into his best shape, and the Woodman polished his tin and oiled his
a level with the crow colony, and could see into their nests. Leaning
Elizabeth-Jane, who felt herself at one with Farfrae in Bible-reading
      Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship she valued beyond that of any

“He hadn’t time, bairn: he was gone in a minute, was your father. He

      In a fortnight they were to go—and once gone, she hoped there
than ever, and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of the youth and
He was gone before the bewildered girl could realize what it all meant,
French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to

      humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the
ceremony afterwards, and the gravity and quiescence with which I
      to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it
opposite extremities of its diameter north and south. From its sloping
Town, Jamaica. The record of the marriage will be found in the register
Of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice,
“I don’t know anything about Mr Fitzpatrick,” repeated Mrs Kearney. “I

      mother must have been quite a slave to your education.”
Michaelis didn’t see anything odd in that, and he gave Wilson a dozen

with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all that he had
that are great are destroyed by their own plenitude. Besides, he had
good-naturedly. “Now, about this wedding again.”

it, smiling and saying, “We shall do very well by-and-by.” Then he laid
that I resolved to prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a
let down my window-blind. The consequence was, that when the moon,
talked of writing a letter to the papers.

“No, sir, not on that ground; but, on the ground that you did forget
to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s

sat invisible in the room. Donald appeared not to see her at all, and
taking the sun on the hot sand of his beach while his two motorboats
      “But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities,”

      much less in his own apartment, had they sat in one equally
upon golf courses on clean, crisp mornings.
silk, and furs. The two younger of the trio (fine girls of sixteen and



I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform of robin’s-egg
me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me. The
      “have any possible claim on me, in the present instance. No

condition for progress, unencumbered. Next he shouldered his tool
here.”
the spot that she had made lovely for him. But it was all going by too

nature to wound me cruelly; never was I happy in her presence; however
world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally
afraid to seem studious or lacking in robustness, I was one. The
little Parisienne’s earnest and innate devotion to matters of dress.
rather a severe tone,
employed, abused, cajoled, and dismissed by turns, being the

“She had a fight with a man who says he’s her husband,” explained a
water.


      set out. However, I recollected afterwards that if he _had_ been
      that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable
      give her nothing. Our poor mother is sadly grieved. My father
only imperfections. His questions showed me how complex and mysterious
little girl would who had been suddenly whisked away from her own
The chief clerk glanced at the hat-rack but, seeing the row complete,
“We pay, or our friends pay, fifteen pounds a year for each.”
 later let me know in a letter by Edgar. I hardly know where I am when
      myself to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be
alone.”


“Consent, then, to his demand is possible: but for one item—one
“O God! what is it?” I gasped.
“Oh—it is—Mr. Henchard!” she said, starting back.
      “What sort of girl is Miss Darcy?”
      their brother; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a

Of course, she knew her power: indeed, he did not, because he could
family, and is supposed to have committed suicide. The news so shocked
This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for
         Of modern hypocrites laid low.
boosing about. I tried to make him someway decent.”
door, who fired up immediately at the slur upon her personal character.
A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby
lover secretly.
Dressed up in white flannels I went over to his lawn a little after
medical men who travelled for the public good, thimble-riggers,
porter. Her appearance always acted as a damper to the curiosity raised
for a while: not permanently, though: any more than I could permanently
cheeks and golden curls, seemed to give delight to all who looked at
spend a whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various

      was consequently necessary to name some other period for the
to feel himself inadequate in appearance beside her whom he had
breakfast-room.
tall honeycombed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through
stewards was any member of the Committee in the hall and, after a great
treasures known to few besides myself. I have described myself as always
A torrent of talk followed. Farley was an American. No one knew very
gift with my hand.”
“Women are not always allowed a choice,” he answered, but hardly had he
smooth—none of those frowning irregularities I dislike so much; and
followers—housebreakers or such like—anywhere near, you may tell them
anticlimax. His family were enormously wealthy—even in college his
indignity. Elizabeth followed him to the house like a culprit; but when
just get one of those pink clouds and put you in it and push you
“Over there in the river,” answered the little girl.
parlour when you want company of an evening.”
tried to move.
tranquil, so passionless, so innocent—and waited for the coming day:

impressions that he wished to express in verse. He felt them within
“He is, or was—for he may be dead—a connection by marriage,” said her
“Then the night before I left I was in my grandmother’s house in Nuns’
Dorian shrugged his shoulders. “I believe he married Lady Radley’s
“Chez maman,” said she, “quand il y avait du monde, je le suivais
      forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how
makes me wear now!”
“Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!” Dorothy went on, standing this time on her
shaved, for there was a white spot of lather on his cheekbone, and he
Chapter 45
ladies in the evening; and it was not till Sophie commenced the
      “Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last
Then they told him of the field mice, and how they had generously saved


With such a possibility impending he could not help watchfulness.
“Do you think I can stay to become nothing to you? Do you think I am an
Lucan road. What an end! The whole narrative of her death revolted him
in short, in his after-dinner mood; more expanded and genial, and also
on three legs. As she left them the milkmaid cast many reproachful


the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to
close-ranked trees. There was a grass-grown track descending the forest

dwell, as it may chance, in the most savage of places. My evil passions

      Mr. Jones’s shop-boy in the street, who had told her that they
hastily through a dozen magazines.
“Good-morrow, Mrs. Poole!” said Mr. Rochester. “How are you? and how is

my hand reached the wheel I felt the shock—it must have killed her
the sincerity of the man who expresses it. Indeed, the probabilities

      of promise? for I ought not to have mentioned the subject. This
      her to vent all her feelings on the housekeeper, who attended in
of age, so that youth could not be pleaded as his excuse; nor could
front glass.


within a day or two, was overcast, and the weather threatening, the
have been_,” said Mr. Rivers, “and contrasts it somewhat too vividly
      as flattering encouragement, to apply to her father, whose


life without making more blunders than one. It has been my custom for
of yellow brick and turned again toward the Emerald City where the

      infancy, they have been intended for each other. It was the
of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion.
      this kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast,
was not to my home I was going, or to a permanent resting-place, or to
romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and
shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No sooner did that
“Can’t you tell us?” he said. “Did you try her?”
white. Her eyebrows had been plucked and then drawn on again at a more
      always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and
great pile of wood with his axe and Dorothy built a splendid fire that
preternatural erectness. She had, likewise, a fierce and a hard eye: it
hands could make them. The hall, too, was scoured; and the great carved
To-morrow, I leave home for Cambridge: I have many friends there to
The morning after the balloon had gone up with Oz, the four travelers
cousins sat on the front seat; Jimmy and his Hungarian friend sat
ice.
the bees turned and flew rapidly until they came to where Dorothy and
be done.”
      Hertfordshire before he left the country.
      to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on
The curiously carved mirror that Lord Henry had given to him, so many
going from garage to garage thereabout, inquiring for a yellow car. On
“But Miss Temple is the best—isn’t she?”

“What is it? and who did it?” he asked.
“Amen! We can yet live,” said Diana at last.
my legs and intermittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back.
Embarrassed glances were exchanged by the Council and Grower nearly ate

would be agreeable.”

each looked upon herself as the only woman capable of making the
thankful for. That she was not demonstratively thankful was no fault of

“Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from
      authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.
“What was he?” asked Gabriel, still ironically.
They drank, however: it was Bohemian. They drank Ireland, England,
He threw himself down on a swell of heath, and there lay still
afterwards learned that, knowing my father’s advanced age and unfitness

you so seldom. By the by, I mean to lecture you a little upon their
Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in
comrade. To wonder how many of these cups the landlord possessed

seemed to him unjust. Gallaher was his inferior in birth and education.
      signal of a visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it
disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco. It must be a delightful
pausing on his way up the middle of the street, and the Scotchman was

Chapter II
“Of course,” said Mr Power.
nearer London than the remote county where I now resided: that was a
voice, and the two young men passed out together.
“You shall sojourn at Paris, Rome, and Naples: at Florence, Venice, and
it full being: yet the drawings are, for a school-girl, peculiar. As to

of their effects. From my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty

nothing to me, my vacant attention soon found livelier attraction in
walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade. This was the
      thing; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s
admiration she had there excited—the attention she had received; and I
turning aside, he said in undertones, “Who is the young man?—Scotch,
dead—that very hour.
Mr. Rochester.

repeat his explanation.
roses. You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You
path. I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers
      entirely away.”
While arranging my hair, I looked at my face in the glass, and felt it

either; and when she laughed her grey-green eyes sparkled with
“We dare not harm this little girl,” he said to them, “for she is
a taxi with him I didn’t hardly know I wasn’t getting into a subway
he’d go out for a drive one fine day just to see the old house again
owning no tables or benches, and having scarce any customers except two
plate a little crimson pyramid of seeded strawberries and, through a
followed, fascinated him and filled him with a sense of delightful
      “That would be a good scheme,” said Elizabeth, “if you were sure
me that French floweret on my hands, which, in some moods, I would fain


      you, sir?”
unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when,
“Are you an orphan?”

      triumph. It was consoling that he should know she had some


She wandered about this place, uncomfortably conscious of the impending
pain, as could be seen from the twitching of his face. He instantly
      in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously
that.”
      means or inclination to marry early. The last-born has as good a
XXIX.
but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am
At that moment several mice were seen running up as fast as their
agony. The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses,
      charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could
told that one is a sinner. Conscience makes egotists of us all. Yes;

would soften her radiant vivacity; she would withdraw her hand hastily
extreme by a plantation, and approached by a winding road. At the

“You would miss them,” said Lord Henry.


      yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when
      Elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house.
“O yes!” said Lucetta eagerly. “I am sure she would like to. Besides,

      barbarously misused by them all; and on these two points she
“Don’t take them off,” I cried; “I will not stir.”


could have gained no precise knowledge as to facts. Grace has, on the
“What’ll we do with ourselves this afternoon?” cried Daisy, “and the
granary. “I didn’t know you were there. I have kept the appointment,

      indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that
I should have followed up my first inquiry, by asking in what way Miss


hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a neighbouring
girl may thrill me. I love acting. It is so much more real than life.
“And since I cannot do it, Jane, it must have been unreal.”
growing more apparent at each syllable. “You remember that trying case
portrait, and he started.
nuisance,” whispered Stubberd.
for those parts. It was quaint and northerly.
calm, which, had they found me unprepared, I should probably have been
meeting Gallaher after eight years, of finding himself with Gallaher in
is in their anger? of the breaking up of the frozen sea in their
globes of light above them in a haze of summer evening.
Elizabeth-Jane. She cannot be told all—she would so despise us both
plain dress—or rather, possibly, in consequence of it, for she was a
“You’ll put your head in the sack,” repeated Little Chandler stoutly,
Devant une façade rose,
returned to say that she would wait till that was over before
A Royal Personage was about to pass through the borough on his course
being always absolutely over-educated. He is a very modern type.”

      Derbyshire is all the present concern. To the little town of

accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate

modestly, plainly. Miss Temple, that girl’s hair must be cut off
“Glinda might,” he suggested.
      wondered that Charlotte should not prefer the dining-parlour for

      soon obliged to take her ladyship’s praise into his own hands.
husband’s. I christened her by the same name we had given to the first,
      not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his
absolutely such a fool and sensualist as to regret the absence of a


not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a
“Quite ready, James,” she answered, keeping her eyes on her work. For
forget something very sad that had happened to me long ago.”

treacherous slate somehow happened to slip from my hand, and falling
course yet further away from Casterbridge, Henchard gradually, almost
corner. That’s what I’m always saying to that Rosicrucian there: take
      son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding. Into
      they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and
“Station! station!—your station is in my heart, and on the necks of


      Mr. Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said:

He had consented to halt half-an-hour or so in the town, and to receive
unwholesome skin; thick lineaments in a spacious visage, heavy limbs
“I dare say, my dear,” said Lord Henry, shutting the door behind her
critical quizzing eyes. Perhaps she would not be sorry to see him fail
reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is!
young lady who has had a misunderstanding with her friends, and has
“O father!” she said smiling. “I had no sooner lain down than I napped,


and illness. I found several letters, and, among others, one which I
spectacles.”
interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of
destroyed, and she really seemed to have no cause for fear.

      over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done. I am
      prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in
Compared to it there was nothing else of any value. It was true that as
accidentally learned to write round hand instead of ladies’-hand. And,

horse.”

strained touch of pain in his voice. “You went to the opera while Sibyl
      question—‘Oh! the eldest Miss Bennet, beyond a doubt, there
her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us. She was
for mysel’? No, no. As long as I’ve a day’s work to offer he shall do
thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and somewhat

      the worse of you for being simply dressed. She likes to have the
union. Yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery. I will
and the Kearneys had often invited her to their house.
“No, no; not to-day,” said Henchard; and she went away; feeling that to

      as these.”
artifice, particularly in children; it is my duty to show you that
domiciliation—itself almost a proof that a man had reached a stage when

      lips; and when he did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity
      Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less

      When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
Royal unicorn. Every trifling emotion that her husband showed as he
“Come along, Toto,” she said. “We will go to the Emerald City and ask
weighted by the basket, a perceptible bend.
Kelso for the use of the little grandson whom, for his strange likeness

      proportionate speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in
dried.
slantwise the rays of the strongly coloured sun, which made
to lie down.”
“One day, when I was oppressed by cold, I found a fire which had been
a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. Well, the fact of having met
“I cannot: I am tired and sick. I want some water.” He heaved a sort of
hotels and clubs and private houses made her hard to find in any other
      everything worse.
never rest, nor approve of others resting round him. As I looked at his
slowly. He walked with one hand upon his hip and in the other hand he
      instantly caught by Pemberley House, situated on the opposite
breeches-pocket, under the disguise of a sovereign: but I mean soon to

paragraph in the evening paper which he had propped against the


depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside. “And mind,” he
As she said this, she approached her tall person and ample garments so
Rochester turned to see who the “person” was. He made a curious
      it, with the same kind of supposition which had appeased Mrs.
“Indeed, begging your pardon, sir, I shall not. I shall just go on with
wrongs, too, was now quite healed; and the flame of resentment
discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for
      table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually
So, the Lion being fully refreshed, and feeling quite himself again,
“Don’t chase me! Don’t chase me!”
was rusted and the handle broken off short.
I nearly forgot myself just now! What I meant was that the girl’s hair
      Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself, but his
her well; and he shall have her for ever, and never hear aught o’ me.
rich heap mounted higher—shirts with stripes and scrolls and plaids in
he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance. It is not pity that you
“And it was last Monday night, somewhere near midnight?”
scrap she took indoors, and began to copy the calligraphy, which she
angry, and said to the Witch, “Give me back my shoe!”
      tea was over, glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies. Mr.
face, there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness. I
young man, apparently not recognizing her as the girl at the inn. He
reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his dispatches,
the wondering young man, who by this time observed that one of
stairs and was craning her neck over the banisters.
blown off, leaving a loud, bright night, with wings beating in the
“Sit,” he said; “the bench is long enough for two. You don’t hesitate
Dorian hesitated for a moment. Then he threw his head back and laughed.
      “I did not know before,” continued Bingley immediately, “that you
and his personality had been the great turning point in his art. He
I had coasted along the lower wall of the orchard—turned its angle:
Weydon Fair——”
      entirely so. She had even learnt to detect, in the very
side by side in such a way as to suggest afar off the low, easy,
should be conveyed to a place of safety. Felix was too delicate to
Miss Temple got up, took her hand and examined her pulse; then she
in her shade as we crossed that apartment; and, passing the arch, whose
had made them tranquil for a while, as if to give them a deep memory
was very young in order to keep that cool, insolent smile turned to
Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel

      him, she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted
straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right
his prime, when his skill laid open to him any farm for the asking.
not account for the sounds she made. Sometimes I saw her: she would
am Marsyas listening to you. I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that
back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor Eckleburg’s
      not conceal your age.”
endured incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my
inclination—you will hasten to enter into that union at once.”
the moon came out and shone brightly. So they lay down among the sweet
had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the

third. After his embarrassment and his unreasoning joy he was consumed
“Hullo, hullo!” said Henchard, coming up behind. “Who’s sending him
      apartment, that he declared he might almost have supposed himself

a reverie, till, turning his face from the window, and towering above
Chapter 40
just how extraordinary a “nice” girl could be. She vanished into her
from the society of Dublin’s gilded youth and where there was a certain
      endeavouring to make them out. She certainly did not hate him.
      them.
“I never thought of it, before; but you certainly are rather like

under the vague name of _Drapery_. The drapery consisted mainly of

Henry had the charm of being very dangerous. But that was all. He was
behold.
them. She waited until it was time for the second part to begin in the
      temper. When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous.
“Mrs. Fairfax will smile you a calm welcome, to be sure,” said I; “and



“Mary Garrett’s mother is better, and Mary came back to the school this

      and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing
      dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little
“Has it other furniture of the same kind within?”
the reflective Elizabeth more observant of her brilliant and amiable
what can I wish for more?”
cottage together.
      having the power of reading again. I can remember some
of happiness that it was in my power to bestow? He saw my change of
“My dear,” she told her sister in a high, mincing shout, “most of
little angel here below;’ he then gets two nuts in recompense for his

do not pretend that my protestations should acquit me; I rest my innocence
“_Beannacht libh_,” cried Miss Ivors, with a laugh, as she ran down the

L.F.B.
His mother was waiting for him below. She grumbled at his
      him only a fortnight. She danced four dances with him at Meryton;
      not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured. We must
      herself, she thought that if encouraged to read and improve
difference. I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have
perform it with capacity and tact: you could win while you controlled.
chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of
that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the
“You won’t? Then I must do it myself,” said the young man, and he tore
softly.
detected something in his face that displeased, or rather that failed
incense on the freezing and sunless air, he went on—
sad plight of her old friend, and the Lion looking sober and sorry.
natures are not so soon softened, nor are natural antipathies so

what has happened?”
      “My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world
enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past; but at this day I
strangeness. I recalled the voice I had heard; again I questioned
      the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed. Mrs. Gardiner
wine-glass (I saw Miss Ingram watch me frowningly as I did so: she

“Well, for sure case, I knawn’t how they can understand t’ one t’other:
Again Mr. Rochester propounded his query:
      required. A thousand things may arise in six months!”
confirmed the idea which she had conceived. Accordingly, a few months
found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I

things are our only necessities; and there were several very
      made no other reply to Elizabeth’s salutation than a slight

tripped fairy-like down the field; he, as he strode firmly across,

      great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable. It
      either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved. But at
      comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to
      Bennet, she turned suddenly towards him and said:
drove round to the stables at the back of his lodgings.

sometimes with volcanic vehemence, into the other; and as neither
returned.
“So we did. I remember very well.”
Most of those reports were a nightmare—grotesque, circumstantial,
“Decidedly he has had too much wine,” I thought; and I did not know
After a pause she said, “I dunnut understand that: you’ve like no
the same balm-like emotion spoke: “Try to eat.”

“You know this place, Mason,” said our guide; “she bit and stabbed you
months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery,

see them together.

      of the room.

and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world. She fell, however,

John bent his head; his Greek face was brought to a level with mine,
sightseers had gathered in clumps to watch the cars careering homeward

married to her, that was all.
approached this tremendous being; I dared not again raise my eyes to his
      Collinses were well. She is on her road somewhere, I dare say,
was highly connected.”
lit up her marked lineaments, her thin face, her sunken grey eye, like

“Tell me what it is, Gretta. I think I know what is the matter. Do I

enough, had not a scruple about the unhealthiness of the situation, in

looking grave. You disapprove of me still, I see. But let me come to
      me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you
not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly
She sat at the window watching the evening invade the avenue. Her head
      one cannot wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have
contracted by sixteen hours’ exposure to the rawness of an October day:
little box in whose contents she had an interest.
work. The consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his
hotel. We stayed there nearly a week: I and Sophie used to walk every
      moment increasing, and even Sir William did not look perfectly


      never see you again if you _do_.”
of wintry waste and desert dreariness without.
“But we are quite friendly?”
taken one short glance beneath our own table.
“Oh.”
“No, you are wrong. And now, never mind what I have been: don’t trouble
Lucetta and Elizabeth looked out upon this, for though it was night and

“Which way shall I come, ma’am?”

      concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was
“This is a terrible mistake,” he said, shaking his head from side to
dependent and friendless—Mrs. Reed would have endured my presence more
      gratitude for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to
confusion grew greater and the cabman was directed differently by
leaped from his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning,
was Mr. Rochester.
“Greek meets Greek, then?”
and you might pick up a nice bit of money. It happens to be a rather

them and listen to men and women whispering through the worn grating

back upon an ambitious course, that what he has sacrificed in sentiment

      She was at least free from the offense of Mr. Darcy’s further
      Elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her

      repaid?”

you began tea.”
“Well, it is getting damp here. I shall expect you to-day—this evening,
in his time of distress had often stood here; so had Mother Cuxsom,
“I told you what’s been going on,” said Gatsby. “Going on for five
      the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time
So determined was he to do nothing which should seem like
We went in. To my overwhelming surprise the living-room was deserted.
Elizabeth-Jane by the hand, and held up her finger. Their intercourse
through with it. I’ve got to get another one tomorrow. I’m going to
gentleness; “and someone, a friend, is come to visit you.”
quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom

visit to Morton school; and still more was I puzzled when, if the day
“I don’t think she ever loved him.” Gatsby turned around from a window
disturb you any more.... ’Twas I that chose your name, my daughter;



of the few guests who had actually been invited. People were not
difficulties. A hundred times she had been upon the point of telling
if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had
      every part promises delight can never be successful; and general
the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red
      whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was. She longed to
“A part of me you must become,” he answered steadily; “otherwise the
They had to wait a long time before the soldier returned. When, at
“What’s the matter?”

farmers which thronged about the market-place in the weekly course of
Farfrae, having got over his first concern at the situation, seemed in
would say; and it is by virtue of this superiority, and this alone,
      When the card-tables were placed, he had the opportunity of

tram somewhere and pay the tram or take them to a band or a play at the
She laughed. “I have still the mask.”
“Who are you, anyhow?” broke out Tom. “You’re one of that bunch that
money to be made in the motor business, pots of money. Moreover Ségouin
eighteen, it would not do to undertake the guidance of pupils nearer my
remain in the habitation I had found. It was situated against the back
      conception of; its object was nothing else than to secure her

“I like it better. Come and have something to drink. I must have

the terror of families about Casterbridge and its neighbourhood, where
sonnets.”
why he couldn’t come. She was feeling the pressure of the world

her might be solvable by his course in that respect.

      “Oh, lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.”
other quay. Some bystander said that she was a Norwegian vessel. I went
contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and mountains, obscured
cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of
      regard for me. You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?”
solitude. But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a
must be a good-looking chap.”
      “Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the
me disqualified to become your husband, you recoil from my touch as if
I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task. Guided by a
kitten, and Dorothy at last found him. She picked him up and ran
coarse face, recurred so distinctly to my mind’s eye, that I thought,
thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping
close to the Witch and said, “You have called us for the third and last
“Perhaps you would rather not sit any longer on my knee, Miss Eyre?”
were either of her daughters. They came to tell us the next morning
He felt his great body again aching for the comfort of the
      “Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you
weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria

gave a box I had into the ostler’s charge, to be kept till I called for
“Then why do they call us charity-children?”
parsonic?”
“Have you a pocket-comb about you, sir?”

that it was the wretch whom I had created. I trembled with rage and
incongruous unions—would have asked to marry me. Disappointment made me
The furmity woman half shook her head again. “And yet,” she said, “I
as well as I could with Georgiana and Eliza. They were very cold,
It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment
The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended by herding us into
change at least. Not that my fancy was much captivated by the idea of
      informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your

Casterbridge was difficult to excite by dramatic returns and
circumstances; and seeing the state of his waggon and its load began
here was the Scarecrow, as good as ever, thanking them over and over

“I saw it in the Chicago newspaper,” he said. “It was all in the
But she knew that it would not be ladylike to do that: so she was
in the imagination. But even human sympathies were not sufficient to
and the soft breeze; the rough and the halcyon day; the hours of
I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called
Dorian Gray, and yet the lad’s mad adoration of some one else caused


Farfrae regarded him in silence; then went to the hatch and descended
making the way, which had seemed blocked up, comparatively clear. My
“Twelve minutes to my train.”
the Woodman and the Scarecrow keeping watch.
this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply
She was not disappointed in the fearful hope with which she awaited
glistening drops as I took it to help her from the car.
at once whatever furthers that end. You will see what impetus would be
“Is there ony country where they talk i’ that way?” asked the old


When the candles were lighted, the curtains drawn, and the twain sat at
step. Shut my eyes as I would, these last words of his succeeded in
shouted at her, my aunt shook hands with her for all. The old woman

a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests. It was tea-time,
“What do you mean?”
yourself.”
to get back to Kansas.” Then she added, “But, if I do, you must give me

      them were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond
what they most wished for.
“By degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment. I found that
graves. Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which
being apparently a little _ruse_ of the young lady for exchanging a
the hall when I go home.”
      I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested
      conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to
      “Write to me very often, my dear.”
your part would cause me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my words

      it, and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.
and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think
saved him.
“The deuce he was! You never told me that before: you always said you
influence, differences of culture and constitution were waived. We
“Well, I admit that the wheat turned out badly,” he said. “But I was

“Curse you? No, sir.”


“On this arm, I have neither hand nor nails,” he said, drawing the
had blown strong and full from the south, without, however, bringing a
      appearance as Wickham. The possibility of his having endured such
“Your house did, anyway,” replied the little old woman, with a laugh,
want is to have a look at her. I’m not going to eat her.”
east, west, and south into the wide expanse of cornland and coomb to
in a literal sense, in a figurative one were difficult to fathom. He
in warm flood along his arteries. Like the tender fire of stars moments
      expectation at all of its contents. But such as they were, it may
      her anger was turned against herself; and his disappointed
as sojourners, and shown to a small bedroom under one of the gables,
      desirable measure for both, and could very sincerely wish him


wants to consult you about some tapestries she is thinking of buying.
      the volume, and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity,

thick folds. “It makes me sad because I’ve never seen such—such
“He will sacrifice all to his long-framed resolves,” she said: “natural
      further.
“A little, ma’am.”
thank you,” at every puff. At last she was fairly clean, though
thing is necessary to me, as the biggest corn-and-hay dealer in these
long restraint of the day was slackened; the schoolroom felt warmer

      been written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of
accessible from every part of the town, the historic circle was the
      to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater
Pius IX. his predecessor’s motto was _Crux upon Crux_—that is, _Cross

      ever lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of

now shared his home. Perhaps, after all, Newson was gone for ever.

accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid


There was one case only, and the offender stood before him. She was an
only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground.
virtues have made our England what she is.”
“Neither did I,” said Mr Browne. “I think her voice has greatly
yearnings and disquieting aspirations. I was sure St. John
      valued by her friend. Here was knowledge in which no one could
dark wall for electric light switches—once I tumbled with a sort of
      conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed upon
I feared now to hear my own story. I endeavoured to recall him to the
      any intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on
will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that
dressed in a pretty green silk gown, entered the room. She had lovely
proceeded to cut slices with a generous hand.


      would never have called on us in this familiar way.”

      therefore, the subject was never alluded to. But as no such
remembered well her eyes, the touch of her hand and his delirium....
restlessly.
or you’ll quit the office instanter! You’ll quit this, I’m telling you,
horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.

bolt and passed out. I stumbled over an obstacle: my head was still
believe in the truth of my wants and woes—to induce them to vouchsafe a

“but my name is Leaven: I lived coachman with Mrs. Reed when you were
The refectory was a great, low-ceiled, gloomy room; on two long tables

Stork.

      “And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
“He’s deep beyond all honest men’s discerning, but we must make him
wires and cranks that had produced it.

“I will make a ladder,” said the Tin Woodman, “for we certainly must
“I met him one night in London and he seemed to be very flush.... Poor


      uncle’s immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in
gone. All happiness will be torn away with you. What then is left? For
      chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness,
“Farewell, Miss Eyre, for the present; is that all?”
now in blood, at the deadest hours of night? What creature was it,
deeply; like Felix, I put it off to a more convenient season.
“Understand what?” he asked, angrily.
day that he had been summoned to Millcote on business, and was not

in a shop had been knocked on the head by Farfrae. And thus out of
he never showed to any one else—to what end? I wish he loved you—does
slave in a fool’s paradise at Marseilles—fevered with delusive bliss
for many years past. Yet many carried ruffled cheque-books in their

form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest. My
the opera company which was then at the Theatre Royal. Mr Bartell
speech if they were not minded for it.


palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was poisoned for ever, and

unknown men. Most of the confidences were unsought—frequently I have

Chapter 59
Great God! If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish
of the King’s Inns, a neat modest figure, and walked swiftly down
have some supper?” said Farfrae when they reached the middle of the
      last summer.”
can papa and mama: they know how you shut me up all day long, and how
conscious how unseasonable such a manifestation would be, I restrained

horror, shaken as my nerves were by agitation, I thought the swift
glided within my waistcoat, and ate its way in two minutes to my
Often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged
offended. You see, he’s regular tough underneath it all.”
      only by a slight inclination of the head. She saw that he wanted
“Father Tom Burke, that was the boy!”
“Not if I am manager,” said Farfrae. “He either goes home, or I march
mind unacquainted with the world glimpses of its scenes and ways (I do
He lifted up the sable waves of hair which lay horizontally over his
caused her some filial grief; she could not help asking what she had
him the most wonderful person in the world. Some day you will meet

“A young man, sir—a sort of traveller. He was a Scotchman seemingly.”
      “My dear madam,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this

as if he had recognized himself for the first time. He stood there
“You pain me, my son. I trust you will return from Australia in a
tongue of Madame Pierrot.

“Yes.”
What Henchard had written in the anguish of his dying was respected as
“Do you think Oz could give me courage?” asked the Cowardly Lion.
of half-clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in its worst

‘cadeau,’ clamorously, the moment she sees me: you beat about the
was evident. The sadness of the incident had made an impression on her.
the ravine of Arve. The immense mountains and precipices that overhung
but my yet living flesh shuddered at its chilling influence. I rose ere


answered Mother Cuxsom. “And all her shining keys will be took from
      affection of the writer, that could give her any comfort. Miss
heerabout! No more sowers flinging their seed about broadcast, so that

      again I shall give you pain—to what degree you only can tell. But

“What nonsense!”
anything definable as unladylike, had operated thus curiously in
“Men have educated us.”
been able to guess your age. It is a point difficult to fix where the

books besides. I was rather literary in college—one year I wrote a

      “I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the
Lake Superior as a clam-digger and a salmon-fisher or in any other
interminable. Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots
“Come,” said Donald quietly, “a man o’ your position should ken better,
     A PAINFUL CASE
cheerfulness; and was, in spite of myself, thrown back on the region of
herself, keenly eyeing something under a green bank a little way off.
smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening dress passed him. He
choice except to cut him off there.
consciousness: for the second time in my life—only the second time—I

how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I
no increase or failure of colour betrayed emotion, consciousness of
He again paused: there seemed a reluctance to continue. I grew
      fixed here.”
She flushed up, and gently drew her hand away. “I could have loved you
brought out a decanter of sherry and some wine-glasses. She set these

“Both died before I can remember.”
      “Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you
law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
either one now.” He looked at me with more attention. “Do you mean
two burned in the room. I too rose reluctantly; it was bitter cold, and

oppressed me, I wept aloud.
awkwardness of the meeting, and she passed him with her eyes bent on
excepting the nineteen young ladies) looked up for a moment at the
The window was so wet I couldn’t see so I ran downstairs as I was and
Coney looked at him. “Not the skimmity-ride?”
perhaps, if I walk softly, I can slip away unnoticed.”
were. The men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful.
“Come along. I knew Fatty’d funk it.”
      determined to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I
impostor, as because you just now made it a species of reproach that I
hovered already in the western sky. Gatsby started to speak, changed
      is determined on. Yours, etc.,

At last she heard her mother calling. She started to her feet and ran

      before. Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his
      there was still less to be learnt—for her letters to Kitty,
society, and his nearest kin. But with the demand and response of real

grief, and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror—for this still
now I have a particular reason for wishing to hear all about the fire.
The neighbouring Market House and Town Hall abutted against its next
one came near them nor spoke to them because of the great Lion, of

while its rooms and passages steamed with hospital smells, the drug and
was a very cool and collected insanity: I had never seen that
Thus they talked at the Mariners. But we must guard against a too
      neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable

The bell rang furiously and, when Miss Parker went to the tube, a

“I can’t, really. I would sooner not. I have a lot of work to do.”
the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole human race.
concerts lest he should meet her. His father died; the junior partner
      expression of half-laughing alarm.
table, and covered my face with my hands.

passing through them, I found myself at once in the twilight of
fear or uneasy restraint; this suited both him and me.
out like a map: the bright and velvet lawn closely girdling the grey
“What is that?” asked Dorothy; “the Munchkin farmer who made you?”
      himself. He seldom appeared really animated. Mrs. Collins knew
breathing in her vicinity—and that now I was left in my natural
to strike Dublin for some centuries.

      “will she be as tall as I am?”

to-morrow; to leave my tale half told, will, you know, be a sort of
had made us shiver in our beds, and turned the contents of the ewers to

      astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour,
      her defence, except that she had given somewhat of a trial to the
“Ahoy—is this the way to Casterbridge?” said some one from the other




When Elizabeth-Jane opened the hinged casement next morning the mellow

our ordinary meals, was served round between the services.
new coverings, and mirrors, and dressing-cases, for the toilet tables,
Alan.”
      London, his five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered
      “Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his
accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland
called upon to contend for such another. The event of the conflict is
climbing the stairs of the Donnybrook tram; then he turned about and
invaders, saying in honest accents, “Good evening, gentlemen; there’s

      meet, frequently meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe,
farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever! I have a place to repair
“‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him,
      Jane; “but this may be from better feelings than you are
brood. In the common world of fact the wicked were not punished, nor


      been the last mentioned between them; and, if she might judge by
made him eloquent. The cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth
misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for
      took the liberty of coming to ask.”
      cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He
we came nearer, the hushed, intent faces of the people at the garage
      “Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if
of encyclopædic reading she had (to my awe and amazement) undertaken,
face; as just now, for instance); and when one asks you a question, or
sir, tell me who and what that woman was?”
“I have none.”
“Except me: I am substantial enough—touch me.”
best of everything: diamond-bone sirloins, three-shilling tea and the
brilliant prelude; talking meantime. She appeared to be on her high
himself by small jobs of work in the intervals. By this time he had
      ascended for half-a-mile, and then found themselves at the top of

She walked beside her lover, and when they reached the Crossways, or
“Sacrifice! What do I sacrifice? Famine for food, expectation for
Chapter 23
“What for, Jane?”

LOWOOD INSTITUTION.

as far as my experience goes (and I have visited not a few places
Rochester in her eyes; a gentleman, a landed proprietor—nothing more:
“A joke? Of course it is not a joke!” shouted her husband, his

      “they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has
residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought

      Elizabeth had expected. On the gentlemen’s appearing, her colour
wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and
slipped out of the house quickly. The sun was resting on the hill like
Lowood, it gradually disappeared from thence; but not till its
door. She used to sit on the sand with his head in her lap by the
      to-morrow; he will rant and storm about his love for you, and
CHAPTER XIII.
open, and they all passed through and found themselves in a high arched
country was going to the dogs. His principles were out of date, but
      she repented, though she hardly knew of what. She became jealous
I shall last before I get hopelessly plain?”

“I am no accomplished person. And a companion to you must be that.”
unquestionable. The awkwardness of searching for him lay in
devotion. Only the last words of the worship were audible.

three looked at each other, and all three smiled—a dreary, pensive
Kelso got some rascally adventurer, some Belgian brute, to insult his
Lenehan observed them for a few minutes. Then he walked rapidly along


flung from my hand when I had emptied it, and, above all, the splash of
thrilled to its centre with the tugging of a bell-pull upstairs. A bell
Business had long since passed down them into its daily cells, and
of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded,
      owns it himself without disguise.”
a time, don’t they? It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to
wants, his desires, or his prejudices. However, I don’t propose to
under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden, and amongst its

      lift up her eyes. Had Miss Bingley known what pain she was then
both; I don’t care about shops and streets and folk—I would rather get

shades and sweetest lines, according to the description given by Mrs.
transaction. On this latter point he felt almost certain, knowing her

task is already fulfilled!” I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and
hesitated, looked at the chair, thought there was no danger in it
rending its own plumage in its desperation.”
I felt cold and dismayed: my worst fears then were probably true: he
real sorrow in it nor real joy. There was simply the passion of the
the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful

you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will

sat for a while on an abandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had
took off her working skirt and her house-boots and laid her best skirt
The agricultural and pastoral character of the people upon whom the
other travelers had come back again, after destroying the Wicked Witch;
no terms with my enemies. I am miserable, and they shall share my
himself as a sheriff’s man. He was a shabby stooped little drunkard
      was considered certain.

garden. From farther out on the Island came the Cheadles and the O.
fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not. A few incidents

impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words
won’t come out frankly and tell me what you want. Why has it all got
faculties. This light was my forlorn hope: I must gain it.

There was an antagonistic force in exercise, so that when he had tried
The instant her voice broke off, ceasing to compel my attention, my
seriously and half in jest, “If you want to have a strange quarter of
sailor?”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own
looking eagerly at me. I think he rather expected me to copy down the


he watched it until the long legs stopped wiggling, when he knew it was
      such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
is built. The lofty walls of his uncarpeted room were free from
lot of drugstores. He built them up himself.”
      married daughter in the neighbourhood before she was banished to
      without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying
“You see now, my queenly Blanche,” began Lady Ingram, “she encroaches.
      stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man.”
fellow-feeling. Say again you will be my brother: when you uttered the
      and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane
      “And you saw him frequently?”
The track curved and now it was going away from the sun, which, as it


      susceptibility to her feelings; which are naturally lively

be troubled by the influence of their ruined confessional they met in a
      Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall
      uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as


“Just now! and rather! How coolly my little lady says it! I dare say
dog days that I could drink a quarter-barrel to the pitching, I think
harum-scarum military officer who had got into difficulties, and had
Little Chandler took four or five sips from his glass.
me incapable of eating: I now saw, however, that it was a thin oaten
“It seems stingy, to my notions, and dry, and unfriendly. I should like
exclaimed:
in their month of love, nor communicated more profoundly one with
confounded: appearance should not be mistaken for truth; narrow human
reserved, and her manners, though gentle, more distant. Diana looked
sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my
“Father O’Rourke was in with him a Tuesday and anointed him and

      had nothing to say to her.
emigration, and thought more of Elizabeth. The having nothing to do
more of gloom than pleasure in the tone and words in which the
to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.’
by nature, but absolutely unused to society, and a good deal afraid of
“No; I pleaded off, and he admitted my plea. I’ll tell you how to
mysteries to reveal.
“I must leave Adèle and Thornfield. I must part with you for my whole
“If you dread them they’ll dislike you.”

My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make the same
humbler, but what struck him about it was the abundance of books lying

pale, dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively
      the establishment of so many of her children produced so happy an
liberty to attend to my own pleasure. Miss Eyre, draw your chair still
fulminating strange anathemas at finding himself lying in a pool of
      gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt at


brother, who came here in fifty-one, sent a substitute to the Civil
fascinating. It feels instinctively that manners are of more importance
name.
Dorothy.

was drowned last summer up in Maine. And the Hornbeams and the Willie
Chapter 46
already, in imagination, at the house of the lady whose manner had such
“Alas! My father,” said I, “how little do you know me. 
knew the clergy’s taste, the dandy gent’s taste; I knew the town’s
might be a parting for life.
Lord Henry shook his head. “American girls are as clever at concealing
Ingram was a mark beneath jealousy: she was too inferior to excite the
and mouth, and was much bigger than the head of the biggest giant.
destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had
some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little
for the deed and to lend me your attention for a few moments while I
after his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly
“Your father was distant with you,” said Lucetta.
“Monsieur, John has just been to say that your agent has called and


      as possible.”
father’s foreman and opened a butcher’s shop near Spring Gardens. But
      were down for the summer? A most welcome negative followed the
in paralyzed attitudes. Being on the sunny side of the street the three
He went into the pantry hastily and put on his overcoat. The others,
I thought especially grand: and some of the third-storey rooms, though

the court; my lips and throat were parched. I dared not ask the fatal

knowledge, natural astuteness particularised by long association with
relations of things. The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes,
“Perhaps, if you explained yourself a little more fully, I should

quickened into life by his buffetings.
“You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram.”
“I did not pick her up; she was left on my hands.”
face of this he clinked down the shillings severally—one, two, three,
I am going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is
Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me, but
fro, with nervous jerks of their shoulders. The boldest said:
Dorothy was shocked to see that the cow had broken her leg off, and
House, and return to the far different life and scene which awaited
own.
“Come, let us sit down and try what the new _chef_ here is like, and

warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
in time.”
interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk loudly and
      blessed above them all! If I could but see you as happy! If there
“Is that your mistress, nurse?” asked Mr. Lloyd. “I should like to


      others. They were of a respectable family in the north of
“What is that?”
floor of the corn-stores.
below yonder; and then I shall waft you away at once to town. After a
“Who are the wizards?” asked Dorothy.
prospects?
extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book,
“I should have objected very strongly this morning, Lord Henry.”
here?”
Myrtle considered.
honestly made out as it could possibly be; we have had no trouble;
The woman now called to them that supper was ready, so they gathered
_Maynooth Catechism_, sewn into the cloth cover of a notebook, stood at

It was after sunset; but the window-panes of the houses that looked to
      added, “Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from
people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear friend, to return,
      calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and
patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a
      could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before. Her
home, and Jack Griggs was forced to carry her through the mud; and how

  Chapter 29


“I am: so are you—what then?”
      time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following

to escape the great Wildcat?” They all bowed so low to the little Queen
“What do you want money for, all of a sudden?”
added to life, that I ceased to pine after kindred: my thin

and vexation and disappointment. At the thought of the failure of her
“I am,” said Donald. “I say this joke has been carried far enough.”
      followed her, saying:
listen to Maria’s song. Then she played the prelude and said _“Now,

      proposed being engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and
“I was in the Sixteenth until June nineteen-eighteen. I knew I’d seen
      himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
other side. They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he did it,
course that is all that is expected of us when we are on mantels and


      did not I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he

which should be audible to the ear of love alone—when a figure jumped
      She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she



      her family were connected with that corps. Not a syllable had


answered the Scarecrow.
till the fire got low, glancing round occasionally to make sure that
“Three O’Clock in the Morning,” a neat, sad little waltz of that year,
had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my
      “Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little
      young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The
felt ashamed to appear before my benefactors so clad. I was spared the
Some other townsmen came up, and Donald drew aside. “What’s this,
cross. The fact is, after my conflict with and victory over Mrs. Reed,
religion, and said hastily:
marriage: the only union that gives a character of permanent conformity
“Only take off the red cloak, sir, and then—”
     May everlasting shame consume
“You are not, perhaps, aware that I am your namesake?—that I was
are those over the china-shop in High Street—and you can also look for
      their rudeness, and immediately said,—
came along the corridor, her cap flying wide, her gown rustling
“O yes.” And the same uneasy expression came out on her face, to which
      Elizabeth was positively resolved—nor did she much expect it

      “That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. Darcy has not authorised
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her
      everybody’s sake, that she may feel something like regard and

      “When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the
“Mr. Rochester has sent me away to the nursery.”
      conceal it, he must find it out.”
entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian,” answered Lord Henry with
      to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have enquired of
      journeys—and I am persuaded my friend would not call herself
square green bottle, the contents of which he poured into a green-gold

earnestly, when she had finished talking about the adventure with the


towards the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it frequently during my


hour, approaching in such horror! Alas, this isolation—this banishment

instance, of the sisters of St. John. Still, I liked her almost as I
the Kellehers and the Dewars and the Scullys and S. W. Belcher and the
that “extremes meet.”
which I had been pursuing an hour or more.
him this morning.”
Continually it had happened that what she had desired had not been
He sternly subdued his anguish, shouldered his basket, and went on.
him at his highest point of success still esteemed him as a character.

in her eyes well-nigh went out when he appeared round the bedroom door.
among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that
omitted.
pronunciation of my teacher, I had acquired a certain degree of
was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.
continued the glazier, as the Scotchman again melodized with a dying
This annoyed me.
and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime
somewhat awkward, of course. She had been made awkward by her not
mechanics too idle to mechanize, rural servants too rebellious to
damned cold climate. In your room?—Jane, run down to Mr. Mason’s
      Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at her for a
understood, as by inspiration, the nature of his love for Miss Oliver;
      because their passions were stronger than their virtue, she could


as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep!
visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I
floor, polished grate, and well-rubbed chairs. I had also made myself
“The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried
country.”
it was quite natural. What was she beside Lucetta?—as one of the

her way to the chamber that had been the governess’s—(she was like as
Long did the hours seem while I waited the departure of the company,
mess carefully on to the hob: “rather snappish, but not ’rageous.”
that so many as are coupled together otherwise than God’s Word doth
“Let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance into your own
“Mind you don’t,” said Bessie; and when she had ascertained that I was
“Well, so your old friend is gone, you’ll be sorry to hear.”
“We do also, unfortunately,” replied my father, “for indeed I had
pier-glass. The decisive expression of her great florid face satisfied
      own family.”
      “You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves.
minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then he returned the wallet and
      “They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want
recollection brightened his eyes. He too gazed at the pale disc of the


enough.” And he withdrew the cup of milk and the plate of bread.
upstairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left
      Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
“Tell me where I can get you a glass of water,” said St. John; “you
Soon I heard him earnestly entreating me to be composed. I said I could
Sir Thomas waved his hand. “Mr. Erskine of Treadley has the world on

“I have learned what I wanted, however,” said her mother quietly. “The

as if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart.
      feelings had made her equally avoid the name of his friend. But

and decrepit old men who drowsed on the benches; it flickered upon all

great difference.”

With this sublime conclusion, Mr. Brocklehurst adjusted the top button


Chapter 42
      repelled. I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice,

Margaret of Valois by Clovis Eve and powdered with the gilt daisies

the town he had witnessed such rough jests before. His first move was
rugged hills, ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices, with
of himself under the same roof with Lucetta was too striking to be
      journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention
      “I hope you are well, Miss Bennet. That lady, I suppose, is your
      miniatures, over the mantelpiece. Her aunt asked her, smilingly,
element, and beginning to feel the stirring of old emotions. It did not
he could only express his heartfelt sympathy. “Poor William!” said he,
recover my senses for a long, long time.
ditty that she seemed to suggest—
“And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry,” said Dorothy,
rebellions besides political rebellions ferment in the masses of life

walk up and down the room, clenching my fists. My aunt said:
delight.
She was first transfixed with surprise, and then electrified with
Ev’n should I fall o’er the broken bridge passing,
man “deranged by grief” in order that the case might remain in its

it, every flake and film of colour seemed to me to reveal my secret. I
“I quite forget what I said,” smiled Lord Henry. “Was it all very bad?”
tardy speaker: he was looking eagerly at me.
The practical thing was to find rooms in the city, but it was a warm
that—perhaps the most satisfying joy left to us in an age so limited

room.

A long, narrow, dimly-lit passage gave access to the inn, within which
her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the
      sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass
Frank would save her. He would give her life, perhaps love, too. But
      brother, I do not know what we shall do.”
As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
anything—pull down your fall first.”
      “Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elizabeth. “That is an
“which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
and mistress of the house that “a humble old friend” had come.
noticed that something was going on between Polly and one of the young
skirt girt tightly about her. He could have flung his arms about her
continued all night. The next day a keen wind brought fresh and
stay of my declining years. You were attached to each other from your


them was Sir Henry Ashton’s uncle.
to any one. She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn
before me.
“Yes, I will, as your assistant,” I answered.
still lived on with him, her weaknesses provoking only the gentlest
rather dizzy when Dorothy picked him up.
His tone made me suspicious.
      story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall
Folds of scarlet drapery shut in my view to the right hand; to the left
up and would not see any of them.
      could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.


borrowed car out in the rain with the top down, and then lied about
was Gayelette, and she lived in a handsome palace built from great
      “You could not have made the offer of your hand in any possible
retire, whereupon the landlady whispered to Elizabeth to run upstairs
“You know Thornfield Hall, of course?” I managed to say at last.
whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic
“Just like, I should fancy, and very depressing. I began to wonder what
      Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I found that Miss Darcy
was given, did not blind her to the fact that there were others
    however, I did not know how you were situated, or what had happened
replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly
there was the sound of a motor turning into my lane. We both jumped
work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the

tussore-silk curtains that were stretched in front of the huge window,
      on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to
“And you are her daughter Elizabeth-Jane?” repeated Henchard. He arose,
a young carter; and perhaps I’ll take the old man too—yes; he’ll not be
conversation, but she seemed a person of few words: a monosyllabic
like me than she. Some years after I had broken with the mother, she
younger then.... Or was it that——?”
      made a stronger impression on his mind than on hers.
                                 Zelda
Elizabeth-Jane might again live in his house as daughter, he would not

good experienced hand in my line. I’d challenge England to beat me in
also. As for the little old woman, she took off her cap and balanced

“I know what I’ll do,” said Elizabeth-Jane after an interval of
regulated by the same immutable laws. My trifling occupations take up

City. But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it

concerts: four was too many.
approached.

better-looking woman than she that nobody notices at all, because she’s
complexioned and slenderly made; both possessed faces full of
present circumstances warranted, nor my present mood inclined me to
      be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the
So Dorothy dried her eyes and said, “I suppose we must try it; but I am
give good security, and had stated as much to Mr. Farfrae in a letter;

that her stepfather was a workman there. Henchard’s threats had alarmed




      but the visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.

journalism in 1902. He had been coasting along all too hospitable
      impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a
from owning this to you while both of ’em were alive.”
cotton dresses and her large hats! She knew nothing, but she had
part of the pity for me that I have for you.” He turned away as he
twenty years of difference in your ages. He might almost be your
------------------------------------------------------------------------
her mind secret amiable memories. She rested the nape of her neck

enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. I don’t know
“And who goes with you? You don’t travel a hundred miles alone.”


“Oh, she is better than good—she is beautiful,” murmured Lord Henry,
I did so: she put her arm over me, and I nestled close to her. After a
you in your library ever since nine o’clock. Finally I took pity on
gazed around.
the club with Basil and myself. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to
“You know—this St. John Rivers.”
business. Lord Ingram flirted with Amy Eshton; Louisa played and sang
      early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to
them. The women sidled up and began to chatter. Dorian turned his back
fell lazily against my coat’s shoulder and the formidable stroke of
behind all her propagandism? There had never been any ill-feeling
When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned
A minute later Henchard heard his feet on the lowest ladder. He heard


well.”

of life even in the excess of misery! I constructed another sail with a
      conversation than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his
rising wind made some of the windows rattle.
there’s a fire or a flood,” she explained, “or any act of God.”
Elizabeth-Jane developed early into womanliness. One day a month or so
castle, where they were stuffed with nice, clean straw; and behold!
“It was because I felt and knew this, that I resolved to marry you. To
      own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine our surprise. To Kitty,
brains, but it doesn’t know much. Experience is the only thing that

hushed was it, I could hear the cinders fall from the grate, the clock
      Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am sure you
if he were sick I went over to find out—an unfamiliar butler with a
hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore
the evening, Mrs Kearney learned that the Friday concert was to be
unpunctuality, as he entered. He made no answer, but sat down to his
sheen: her dark hair shone glossily under the shade of an azure plume,
His old dog, Pilot, lay on one side, removed out of the way, and coiled
      approbation of the neighbourhood, and the regard which his social
which afar, to deliver it well, skill and strength, courage and
said. “A fellow’s getting off some funny stuff.”
and, later on, when she was beginning to find it unbearable, she had

“Yes,” continued Lord Henry, “that is one of the great secrets of
      desire of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that
time John’s knives also had rest from the polishing process: but Mary,
put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them
was pinned in her bosom, stems upwards. Lenehan’s eyes noted
deal of chattering and noise, the Winged Monkeys flew away to the place
The flanking walls that round them sweep,
daughter home again and set her to do housework. As Polly was very

      been unfolded.”



      invitation. Bingley was all grateful pleasure, and he readily
Henchard, kindly wishes us to stay in the town.”
news to the inmates, and give directions for her husband’s
“No, sir; I am content.”
its presence, it seemed to me that I had been foolish in imagining that
laughter greeted his entrance; noisy at first, and terminating in Grace
“I know that,” said Eliza. “I won’t be bringing him in his cup of
      the extent of his assistance, and to discharge the obligation as


the street. The time of the riding world was over; the pedestrian world

      soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not
to train me to an elevation I could never reach; it racked me hourly to
struggling life, and to have been taught by rough and bitter experience
little things till all chance of acting upon ’em is past.”
      allow—and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family
solemnising impression, sat down, without a word, on the footstool I

you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. But here
The church, as the reader knows, was but just beyond the gates; the

of that might be at such an hour. The lights disappeared, the clock
IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED
John, “as they would have a pleasure in keeping and cherishing a
window-seat: gathering up my feet, I sat cross-legged, like a Turk;

Durnover in straitened circumstances, to whom he handed the money.
were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the
postcards. On special Sundays, when Mr Kearney went with his family to

“What! are you back again?” he asked, in surprise.
      wish of independence. Nothing, on the contrary, could be more
      at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him.”
Rosamond Oliver kept her word in coming to visit me. Her call at the
and stylish; but when she heard the price she threw the blouse on the

eyes.”
      than any of the others; there was a solidity in his reflections
      with my reception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the


This speech troubled me. I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived

Lucetta and Miss Templeman were one and the same person, for he could
wonder if I ought to accept so many!”
      deserved. She had never heard of his having had any relations,
up, but violently shorn of one wheel, rested a new coupé which had


alone now, and return to my book.”
and that’s where he makes his mistake. He worked his way up from
brought her: for it appears he had intimated the night before, that


tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a
miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice. Even now

Soon will the twilight close moonless and dreary
visions to her perishable breath, his mind would never romp again like

“You are still thinking, mother,” she said, when she turned inwards.
his record be clean? You ask me about Henry Ashton and young Perth. Did
nothing of bondage but its galling soreness—which time only can heal.
persons who seemed to follow the music were Mary Jane herself, her
closing the trap door so that no more accidents could happen.
“Then shall we walk together to the top o’ town?”
relapse into her former studious mood: again I ventured to disturb her—
It was Miss Reed that found them out: I believe she was envious; and
a full heart, acknowledged that God had tempered judgment with mercy.
      unconnected with me.”
although variable voice.
“Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. The
repentance.
quilt over his feet and made a strong rum punch. For his part, he was a
colleagues, also to a certain extent, in the true spirit of
      She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of
“I’m sorry,” said the Scarecrow. “The Lion was a very good comrade for
the man’s selfish senses—I wish to mate: it is the missionary.”
      whose character she had no reason to question. At one time she
evening. The evidence showed that the deceased lady, while attempting
and his companions followed him at some distance. As he was proceeding
“How could she of been like that?”

fingers shrank from my touch—the glazing eyes shunned my gaze.
would go back to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My
      eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _she_ could be
“Any youngsters?” said Ignatius Gallaher.
      having a companion.
The said Eliza, John, and Georgiana were now clustered round their mama
crusted grey stone-work remaining from a yet remoter Casterbridge than

employer at the granaries as soon as he conveniently could come there.
but there are other and more interesting bonds between men and women. I
      towards Mr. Collins by Jane’s introduction of him. She received
reconciliation with his former friend Henchard would, in the natural
      back again. You shall hear what she says.”
      turned out very wild.”
Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East Egg
the heart of a wood, made my conscience recoil from the arrangement.

with her there. Two miles out, a quarter of a mile from the highway,
own in which he used to shut himself up all day long, greatly to the
Miss Temple: I saw her in her travelling dress step into a post-chaise,
      of him as to consent to live with him on any terms other than
      likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was
pretty this morning. Is this my pale, little elf? Is this my
as we glided down the stream. Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits
into a huckster’s shop and bought a bottle of raspberry lemonade each.
Another long silence.
case in hand, who had been sent for in wild hope half an hour ago.
      his increasing civilities toward herself, and heard his frequent
the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls


its grip, and to hold him so tightly that he could not advance.
place in her once vigorous frame. Turning restlessly, she drew the
Suddenly one of these gypsies, in trembling opal, seizes a cocktail
escorted her also as far as the piano and then, as Mary Jane seated
would cast about in his mind for some words that might console her, and
the nursery, where she now proceeded to make my breakfast. Few children
chemical apparatus.

“Well, I have looked into my accounts. I find this wrong and this

punch of that whisky: liquor up.”
with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a


“I am no better than the old lightning-struck chestnut-tree in
Four tall girls arose from different tables, and going round, gathered
and staring masterfully at the office-girls. His head was full of the
      some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the
past——”
born, why sitting in a room, and blinking at the candle; why things
bitter pain I myself felt a while ago?”
frightened, as these birds always are by scarecrows, and did not dare
“Gratitude!” he ejaculated; and added wildly—“Jane accept me quickly.
      “I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every
“The German cardinal wouldn’t submit. He left the church.”

Perhaps you think I had forgotten Mr. Rochester, reader, amidst these
      husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so
“Has he many men, then?” said Elizabeth-Jane.
scarcely noticed what sort of a place the bedroom was, except that,
but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you.”
      herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before
“Or do you think that would make it a petticoat party?”
“How is Helen Burns?”
brighter, and more like blood newly spilled. Then he trembled. Had it
“He had better.”
intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that
stock.
      formerly did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant.
“Are there any letters for J.E.?” I asked.
hall, turned sharply as if he were on a wire, and disappeared into the
him, “do you take me for a fool? Do you think me an utter fool?”
tempted to see a curious appropriateness in his accident and, but that
Jane! What a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek! and how
      During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the

      be sorry for what he has done.”
secrecy? It was strange: a bold, vindictive, and haughty gentleman
religieuses would worship their director.”
a tiger through the Bois de Boulogne.
towards me: I have had a specimen of it before in the trick you played
He told his hearers that he was there that evening for no terrifying,


I was in my own room as usual—just myself, without obvious change:

      “But my father cannot. He wrote last week to hurry my return.”
attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of cream-coloured chiffon,
As yet I had spoken to no one, nor did anybody seem to take notice of
A little overwhelmed, I began the generalized evasions which that
He went to a cupboard and reaching up to a high shelf took down a
life at a moderate value, and who knew in spite of her maidenhood that
in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks. I saw a
rage as my companions: now I shall revisit it healed and cleansed, with
under a ban—as if I had no right to claim their sympathies—as if
other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the

between me and his sisters; but that he had fixed on me because he saw
shallow and unworthy. And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over
“Carraway.”

was half-strangled and then burnt there in the presence of ten thousand
rush on event, disclosure open beyond disclosure: but _now_, _I
lost, I feared he was dying; and I might not even speak to him.

      “Not at all,” he replied; “they were brightened by the exercise.”
think he has a home at all.”
“Well, how have ye got on to-day?” his lodger asked. “Any prospect of
whisperings and the champagne and the stars. At high tide in the
a thin scrape of butter: it was the hebdomadal treat to which we all
slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, time being
theatre? If they don’t, it is all right. Did any one see you going
Next morning, accordingly, she rose at five o’clock and went into the
framing the tones, rendered by distance inarticulate, into words.
particulars to the direction:—

My home, then, when I at last find a home,—is a cottage; a little room
The people greeted Dorothy kindly, and invited her to supper and to
cast a shadow, which was felt but not seen, around the head of the
“Because you are strong and I am weak; because you are a Great Wizard
Rochester does: I can talk to you as I can to him, and so can Sophie.

answer or only a very foolish and halting one upon which he used to
tempest, I lit a candle, took down “Marmion,” and beginning—
said. “You must bear in mind that the weather just at the harvest of
not drawn down, and the people can look in—what a scandal!”
      towards her in an agitated manner, and thus began:
cause of Lucetta’s illness and death, and his first impulse was

      the harp, and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with
apparel; in which I had slept on the ground and fallen in the marsh. I
or never.
      the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go
“I mean it,” she insisted. “I’d love to have you. Lots of room.”
      by this as her mother could be, though in a quieter way.
Dorothy’s life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would

your brains in their proper place.”


_camaraderie_, and as the guests of—what shall I call them?—the Three
learned that Miss Temple, on returning to her own room at dawn, had
“But if you are going to call the Winged Monkeys we must run away, for
      you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of
She closed her lips.
me for once.” Then he approached the fire. “I have had hard work to get


bitten him had he not known very well he was made of tin. Finally one
      Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is aware,

throw to a dog. He stands and looks at the people while I do the
Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of
appearance Henchard gave orders that the proceedings were to be
      but she could remember no more substantial good than the general
“But they are so unhappy in Whitechapel,” continued Lady Agatha.

which shut in my tiny garden from the meadow beyond it made me look up.
too. Experience had embittered his heart against the world. But all
your watch.”
constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through. During

which, originally unobtrusive, had become bow-legged and knock-kneed.
Sometimes, when the day was very unfavourable, his sisters would
the moment propitious for making a request in my favour, cried out—
      carriage as quickly as possible. Her niece was, therefore,
these were all dressed in green clothes and had greenish skins. They
      Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he

the village of Gateshead: no, I was not heroic enough to purchase

      energy all his good qualities, she did conquer her father’s
but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an
don’t lift up their hearts like that in this part of the world.” And
      “And Mary King is safe!” added Elizabeth; “safe from a connection
      comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so
a desk:
affords me, of again addressing a word to the Public, to explain that
usual for stability, an ordinary group sat drinking and smoking with
Friday, sometimes with her, oftener by himself. But she never weakened
“I don’t know—I don’t know.” After this her mother was silent, and


“I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray,” she answered. “Poor Geoffrey is
with slow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady

madness. He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and
Toto ran over to the trees and began to bark at the birds sitting
      Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little Miss
dancing, and every one we met appeared gay and happy. My own spirits were

tones from near and far parts of the moor. At a hole in a rotten weir

of the parcels. We walked through the flaring streets, jostled by
her neck and the incident was over. Next day at five o’clock she

line, and view the interior of High-Place Hall on this particular
from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
About three o’clock the quality of Wilson’s incoherent muttering
am soulless and heartless? You think wrong!—I have as much soul as
“Ay, ay; that’s so,” said the young man.
      As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively,
“Well, if you are not ambitious, you are—” He paused.
have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how
      handsome?”
external world. I asked was it a mere nervous impression—a delusion? I



should be left in the red-room till I came to her myself.”
“What’s going on to-night?” asked the girl, after singling out an old
      “Yes, she will remain there till Christmas.”

time looked at them a little proudly, with a veteran’s pride.
recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.
new circumstances: I want this because it is of no use wanting anything
“Good morning, Miss Adela,” said Mrs. Fairfax. “Come and speak to the
and even those who wait upon him do not see him face to face.”
silence on your wife’s part. I thus look upon the whole as a misfortune
almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that
the window-sashes a little way open that the sound of his wheels might

      Wickham—when she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation
go down to the kitchen and shortly return, generally (oh, romantic
you had a visitor. What are the bells ringing for, I wonder? And the
      “I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting
Leonardus Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a
would not deny herself to me. My companion must be of the same species
the commencement; that it would assist him greatly to have a pupil with
beautiful. And I am sure Aunt Em will be dreadfully worried over my
of the town were already shut; and I was obliged to pass the night at
his dinner not properly cooked. He said it was very good and ate a few

by a small branch and shaken until he howled. But the Woodman promptly
better change your frock now; I will go with you and fasten it. Here is
      “Oh!” cried Elizabeth, “I am excessively diverted. But it is so
trials were reserved for her.
do not mean to harm it: but, if I did, it would not take harm from me.
escape.
admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree. How can I see so
that the ancestors of the house were wealthy; that all Morton had once


      however amiable her temper, her heart was not likely to be easily



      should have known nothing about, if she had not happened to see

“They don’t fill Mr. Henchard’s wine-glasses,” she ventured to say to
“And his sisters also?”
“Are you going somewhere, Helen? Are you going home?”
      was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the
together. For I have a new ideal, Harry. I am going to alter. I think I

James Lennon, driver of the engine, stated that he had been in the
     THE DEATH OF PARNELL

impossible. You would not have understood it. I hardly understood it
Indeed, her present position was so different from that of the young
“Just standing here, old sport.”
especially such as I loved, urged me on: I availed myself fully of the


“Now,” said he, releasing his under lip from a hard bite, “just hand me
pointing inside; perhaps it was he who drove Daisy and Gatsby over to

gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a
sensations that seem stronger than themselves, and that they are
  * No wasting time at Shafters or [a name, indecipherable]
minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress
      but as it is, I would really rather not sit down before those who
“I don’t care!” cried Daisy, and began to clog on the brick fireplace.
not know how they had come there, what they had come for, or how they
And with another bow, the Monkey King spread his wings and flew away
can see the doings full well, such as they are to be, like the rest of
down the bridge for me?”
“You will never marry again, Lady Narborough,” broke in Lord Henry.
“What would you say, Harry, if I told you that I had murdered Basil?”
      you must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for
address is care of B. F.—”
      resolutely kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy
He had a dark face, with stern features and a heavy brow; his eyes and
beside the chains at some distance and crossed the road obliquely. As
“You could scarcely find me one. If you knew it, you are peculiarly
me.”

might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods

“Well—well. To the main point—the departure with me from England, the
      for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her

      The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they

the projection of the thatch she saw a figure. The young lady had come.
“I ask only minutes. Jane, did you ever hear or know that I was not the
in an instant, I was within the chamber. Tongues of flame darted round
him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family. He could
see very distinctly: he cannot read or write much; but he can find his





tenacious, improved with practice; exercise sharpened my wits; in a few
butter-firkins, churns, milking stools and pails, hay-rakes,

      of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything. It was
in evincing with what skill he could, while acting and speaking
      willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
“I suppose you have heard the news, Basil?” said Lord Henry that
seeing the western sun gilding the sign of its decline on the wall, I
She looked at him, smiling. “How long Mr. Gray is!” she said. “Let us
that space of time to consider my offer: and do not forget that if you
the rain until the melancholy of the wet street effaced all the
new face, too, was like a new picture introduced to the gallery of
she had looked upon as her lot by nature departed with a change to

consideration for the dead one’s memory, as well as best philosophy.
continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased. I lay at the
Jordan’s party were calling impatiently to her from the porch, but she
explained, “he is infallible.”
      abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and

course southwards.

but Oz made no reply. They thought the Great Wizard would send for them
was called Rochester?”

      discretion end, and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid
wanting.
not know who he was, could not know who he was. The mask of youth had
They sat down to breakfast, and Elizabeth-Jane’s thoughts reverted to
      calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss
      some manner connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck
nothing when ’a came here; and now he’s a pillar of the town. Not but
one’s movements! I declare she talked to me once like something mad, or
      Well, Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.”
now, in her eighteenth year, it still remained but little unfolded. The
towards the possessor of such qualities. But he speedily lapsed into
mast, a drowned corpse glanced through the green water; a fair arm was
“Hello!” I roared, advancing toward her. My voice seemed unnaturally
complexion than that ruffian’s rouge.”
“Child! what do you mean? What sorrowful eyes you fix on me! Well, but
      could have none at all.
      instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for
deficiency or vice which sunk her below it. She made reasonable
his shoulder, and his dinner-bag suspended from it. The reader promptly
twilight and snowflakes together thickened the air, and hid the very
hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
      human being in my life.”
Dr Halpin, assistant house surgeon of the City of Dublin Hospital,
Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter, was
Henry, laughing. “That is one of the most important secrets of life. I
Glorious discovery to a lonely wretch! This was wealth indeed!—wealth
private subscription among them to set him up in it—that I would be
beyond the ordinary). The bell-ringing and the band-playing, loud as
Jealousy was instantly broken; because at the same moment my love for
crossing the lines late at night from platform to platform and, in view
      “As often as I can. But you know married women have never much
raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers. Her companion
“Hindostanee.”
“No; there were some, but the monster has eaten them all. And, besides,

general philanthropist; but I bear a conscience;” and he pointed to the
pounds, and joined in the plot against me.
“She is a good hand, I daresay,” said the charwoman.
hold of the idea, at one feminine bound, that the caged bird had been
Chapter 53
bain’t made afeard now. It was fear made my few poor hairs so thin! No
“I’m not surprised that you are,” returned Dorothy. “They must be
      “Well, Lizzy,” continued her mother, soon afterwards, “and so the
      acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though expressed
“And the school, Miss Eyre? It must now be shut up, I suppose?”
Coming to the door she cried regardless of consequences, “Come to that,
scandal—an effigy of me, and him!”

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment. Then he said:
And haunted as a robber-path
      done, and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If
      heard so much?” said her aunt; “a place, too, with which so many
      decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears. I did


      great measure to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has
      their mouths, except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently
all my thoughts and feelings, though guessing some, he could not tell
with repletion; have the goodness to serve her as auditress and
     DEATH OF A LADY AT SYDNEY PARADE
      ascertaining from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and
      She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by
his own heart.

signboard, now visible in the rays of an opposite lamp. Hereon the
      believe I thought only of _you_.”

She relinquished Lucetta’s hands, and ran to the door. Lucetta herself,
night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they
the will of heaven!”


enemy; we have yet to wrestle for our lives, but many hard and miserable

corn-market as a flying machine would create at Charing Cross. The
news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through. I suffered
      Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first convenient
surprised at the good breeding which now for the first time showed
affair and in the end had so magnified his sin that he was almost
your life: quite more refined and exalted.”

midnight dark in its fathomless depth and measureless distance; and for


time he affected, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of
      many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some
“I could never have thought it. He is a proud man: all the Rochesters
knew such an idea would shock, perhaps offend you; and you were so
principle; to have yielded now would have been an error of judgment. So

By Jane Austen

ice or frozen by the eternal frosts.
      her—their opinion of everybody—would always coincide, there was a
“It pulls you down,” he said. “Press life. Always hurry and scurry,
permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of
When everything was ticketed that Henchard had owned, and the auctions
of the early Romans—of their subsequent degenerating—of the
She had not been able to forget it for days, despite Farfrae’s tender
and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
always quarrelling—”
      much what he ever was.”

      and then added:
corpse, nor vacant like air, am I?”
to you, draws you to my centre and spring of life, wraps my existence

“You think so now,” rejoined St. John, “because you do not know what it
      some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise
leave it she did not find it a wholly undesirable life.

“For my part, I am content in knowing I am as brave as any beast that
Casterbridge was itself an avenue, standing on a low green bank or
that the dead man had not dared to realize? Here, from the fading
      that did not at first convey much gratification; but when Mrs.
The field mouse, now that it was freed from its enemy, stopped short;
“Adèle,” I inquired, “with whom did you live when you were in that
Then the Guardian of the Gates put on his own glasses and told them he
Maecenas knew. And I had the high intention of reading many other
both perfect. I was thinking chiefly of flowers. Yesterday I cut an
From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocating chords were
form of idleness, had gone on to wake her serious solicitude. Why was
You might be its visible symbol. With your personality there is nothing


I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous, menacing road of a
have been such a hard one.... Elizabeth, it is I who am your father,
While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the

could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more. After all, his
felt his heart rattling around in his breast.

temporarily light-hearted man, who has started himself on a flight of
We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-coloured space,
Most true is it that “beauty is in the eye of the gazer.” My master’s
whipped. When a boy was rough and unruly there was nothing would do him
CHAPTER XX.
time to reach the Emerald City, I shall never get my brains.”
It had formerly moved in jolts; now it went on oiled casters. The old
      the elder brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask
His disciple I adopt His pure, His merciful, His benignant doctrines. I

than from their own wells. Mrs. Cuxsom, who had been standing there for

      me. I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation
Oh! No mortal could support the horror of that countenance. A mummy
Then I drank, and committed my crime. It must have been just on that
soft cheek, then with Diana’s flowing curls. They laughed—kissed
twelve years old the three returned to England, and settled at
“Is she gone?” he said.
“Nobody. They’re all gone.”
Scatcherd would praise her attention; but, instead of that, she

Scarecrow.
assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes seemed to desire an
seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too, so in a short

“Nothing in the world,” was the reply; and, replacing the paper, I saw

The wandering look and changed utterance told what wreck had taken

“Therefore, I will not linger on the past. I will not let any gloomy

diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the
to the place at which Farfrae encountered her. He heard the young man
that stood in the middle of the room. It was shaped like a chair and
“You might have some sense of decency,” said Mr Holohan.


      “And will you promise me, never to enter into such an
Ere long, I had reason to congratulate myself on the course of
Diversity of opinion about a work of art shows that the work is new,
“You looked tired,” he said.
      Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all the way home; but
“And what became of them?” asked Dorothy, who had been greatly
voice. “But don’t strike me—please don’t—and I’ll do anything you want
      superior to the broad-faced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing
“Pope Leo, you know, was a great scholar and a poet.”
Newfoundland, and then I asked myself what I should do.
obtained proof: to remove the last shade of doubt, it remained but to
He looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I must have known

(though there was), and sat down.
“I had better not pass my word: I might be obliged to break it.”
for Paris by the midnight train on the ninth of November was poor
on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me,

chemistry and things of that kind. You have made experiments. What you
neglect or forgetfulness. To this end may I request you to return to me
resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated
paid I can’t get a civil answer.”
Chapter 4

of the West India house opposing but slight obstruction to her wolfish
wherein she momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate,
picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of

Mixen Lane was the Adullam of all the surrounding villages. It was the

mind—something which concerned a person in whom she was interested
baritone was asked what did he think of Mrs Kearney’s conduct. He did
herself telephoned and seemed relieved to find that I was
      Mrs. Bennet’s means, for his coming next morning to shoot with
“He approved of them—yes.”
are we bound to prosperity or ruin. When I look back, it seems to me
conclusions. I had certainly acted imprudently. It was apparent that
      “_Mr. Darcy_, you see, is the man! Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_
his absence. As he was putting it into the envelope, a knock came to
      different manner. The vicious propensities—the want of principle,



grief to your relations. It is far better to endure patiently a smart
not been altogether unknown here. In a block of cottages up an alley
notes. To follow the voice, without looking at the singer’s face, was
chain. Grace Poole bent over the fire, apparently cooking something in
shallow psychology of those who conceive the ego in man as a thing
his eyes made a swift anxious scrutiny of the young woman’s appearance.
after Mrs. Henchard’s funeral, the candles were not lighted, and a
a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature. Oh, praise the
banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but
heart is true to you still!”
talking, with that impetuous cordiality on the Mayor’s part, and genial
culinary rites, as words can convey but an inadequate notion of to the
before going off with him; I can hear their sound now, and the sound of
who would restore to rectitude the warped system of things; because I
Mary Jane gazed after her, a moody puzzled expression on her face,
green banks, and murmuring in a voice very grateful to a little girl
raised in abstraction to the window, caught sight of a figure just
bodices and golden spots all over their gowns; and princesses with most
      “But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
She looked charming as she came out in the moonlight. That could not be
blasted, and smutted grains in great numbers. The produce if honestly
With Bewick on my knee, I was then happy: happy at least in my way. I
there’s no city like Paris for gaiety, movement, excitement....”
world. No wonder Basil Hallward worshipped him.
possess herself of the key of her cell, and issue therefrom in the
“Just as much as you are.”
there is no scope for developing them heere.”
ever destroyed her before, so I naturally thought she would make slaves
says. He has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the single
and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large
      “What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy!

object with yet intenser interest. He moved about amid the throng, at


atone for his error by leaving his possessions to us; that letter
looked out and another looked out; the gallery filled. Gentlemen and

“At dead of night!” I muttered. Yes, that was ever the hour of fatality
On the third day I was better; on the fourth, I could speak, move, rise
“Is it to be the last?” he said. “Because you know, I have an a.p.”
      you do not depend on her serving you.”
interpreter—often an unconscious, but still a truthful interpreter—in
suspicion that this was a _ruse_ to decoy him on to the next wood,



      of the expected summons, when they approached her, she said to

“Jane, are you ready?”
Again the eyes looked at her sharply, and they saw she was telling the
      excel if she does not practice a good deal.”
woman?” The handle turned, the door unclosed, and passing through and
unmanned, and his heart smote him for having attempted reprisals on one
We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland
slate, I rallied my forces for the worst. It came.

assumed justification in abandoning him when she discovered reasons for
standing with her hands on her hips, easefully looking at the
the morning with a glass of rum, and walking down the street met
anybody, but if I do.”
been; and whether what followed was the effect of excitement the reader

      being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal.
      “Oh! it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do
had reference to him; but he did not hear them, and there seemed to be
“Ah!—what did it do?”

      used to have her judgement controverted. She enquired into
acutely the contrast between his own life and his friend’s and it
“Never mind—all in good time,” said he. “Judge me by my future


silver. It was apparently new.
      such an epithet.
staircase, to seek my own lonely little room, and then to meet tranquil
“Oh,” said Dorothy, “I’m awfully sorry for you.”
of a servant passing, I would know what all this means. Well, to-night
      qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between him
a right to know. Were you married to my father?”

long lot of letters relating to his past life; and I could do no less

at her stillness and strained his ear to listen also. But he could hear
Donald himself shared it, his voice being distinctly audible in the
      appear to him! In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so
to a man like that.”
      endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but
“dumbledores” but of “humble bees”; no longer said of young men and
to make me fear and shrink, as if I had been wandering amongst
“Mucus.” said Mr M’Coy.
will bestow upon you a great many brains, and such good brains that you
me. Now what would you think of her—I put it to you?”

    Sort de l’eau son corps rose et blanc.

bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness.
years perhaps, but still it is a respectable place; yet you know in
mother say so hundreds of times—and he did it to wrong you. After
should you be annoyed? I suppose she will belong to you some day. When


of this wilderness. Life, however, was yet in my possession, with all

“And if he say yes?” inquired the more sanguine one.
“What for? Are you hurt? Have you seen something?” again demanded
people, the same profusion of champagne, the same many-coloured,
petrified his countenance: he went on—
advisedly.”




      very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it. I need
face homeward: I could not open it then; rules obliged me to be back by
arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with
      wishes. It was an union that must have been to the advantage of


My wife will be delighted to meet you. We can have a little music
archdeacon: his absence was a relief to me. I need not say that I had
maintenance. I hated it the first time I set my eyes on it—a sickly,
      dinner-time. Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets,
“I’ll kiss you and welcome: bend your head down.” Bessie stooped; we
“I would say, my dear fellow, that you were posing for a character that
of Aunt Julia’s making and she received praises for it from all

“Is it the real Dorian?” cried the original of the portrait, strolling
They talked to each other across the theatre and shared their oranges
some unmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quivering on
endurance; and still less could I understand or sympathise with the
      leave her, or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and
only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is
would be to vex him: on all occasions fortitude pleased him; the
obeyed.
but I sailed away from them. I felt as if I was about the commission of a
ignominious grave, and I the cause! A thousand times rather would I
Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this
      were married, you know, at St. Clement’s, because Wickham’s
She went on to the window and stood there, looking out. Gabriel waited

      There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth’s mind, a more
stopped at the foot of the steps.
Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance of the
The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning towards land,
admiring and happy eyes had been wandering from her dress to her face
“I adore simple pleasures,” said Lord Henry. “They are the last refuge
great pity, but it’s always so! Yet I’ve done very well this year. O


contemporaries by storm; who is not really new, but is the first to
“Father Flynn.”

teaching them the secret of some new joy. They were better off than he

      confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his
gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after
      believe us grateful for the condescension, and that we have done
as if tempted to order me away. I remember her appearance at the
again. But that can’t be helped. I quite understand what you feel about
“That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,” answered Dorian,
has maintained a regular, though not frequent, correspondence ever
him annoyed.”
remark to Mr. Rochester how much Adèle wished to be introduced to the
on his uncovered head. At this moment John approached him from some
has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives
time to time sat down beside Wilson trying to keep him more quiet.
king, my lawgiver, my captain, is the All-perfect. It seems strange to
Joseph.
      mention of Wickham’s name.
“Mrs. Fairfax told me in a letter.”

angry countenances of his companions. “Why do you answer me so
surname.
last to wipe them.



“For that matter,” replied the old woman, “if you mean about the
      up, as to believe him capable of it?”
made my exit by the side-door, which was fortunately near. Thence a
What could he do now but marry her or run away? He could not brazen it
and balmly atmosphere?”
all wrong, and was perhaps playing the fool unwittingly; and I began

strange mistake” (Henchard was glad that he had disguised matters
door that opened into the room that was to keep for him the curious
down with the company on equal terms. Mr Kernan appreciated the gift

came to them, and four minutes later they all went into the Throne Room
“Dead?”
approached; Diana tried to cheer me: she said I looked ill, and wished
      admired every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually

      They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water,
selection was made, and such things as were chosen were carried to the
to you, Basil.”

comparatively light touch, to push Farfrae off his balance, and send



holding Henchard by his collar with the contrary hand. With his right
within a month of each other.
      Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his

domiciliation might almost have carried the point against him, when the

arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry’s house in Mayfair. It
on the third act. Dorian Gray went back to his seat. He looked pale,

with musical instruments. Here I walked about for a long time, feeling
race of queer men who do not like strangers to cross their country. For
evidences of wealth in the proprietor. Rosamond was full of glee and
among the crowds. She went into Downes’s cake-shop but the shop was so
readjustment of his dress. Mr Browne, whose face was once more
“Let her stand half-an-hour longer on that stool, and let no one speak
“Ask him to come in at once, Francis.” He felt that he was himself


Then Toto came up, and immediately began to bark, but Dorothy made him

      will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the
wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours
“I do leave it alone,” affirmed the accused hollowly.

at the long rows of beds, each of which was quickly filled with two

      trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in
as flowerlike as I had found her.”

      followed her, and made the important communication. Its effect

“Did Mr. Oliver employ women?”
waiter. “What is it? Nothing about politics, I hope! They don’t
said to himself. “Yes, I must put her in her proper position,
Brocklehurst; I advocate consistency in all things.”

A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his
clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will hold
But the man could not hear with the noise of the furnace. It was just
had nothing more to do: there were my trunks, packed, locked, corded,
that have a certain charm for the weak. That is all that can be said
On a heap of sacking in the far corner was lying the dead body of a man

disposed to see me, and I’ll come then; but at no other time.”
was this his first crime? Alas! I had turned loose into the world a
followed still, up a very narrow staircase to the attics, and thence by
hardly appeared capable. His appearance, different from any I had ever
“And would be sorry to part with them?”
their heads, wearing ermine robes and satin doublets; and funny clowns

others, who contemplated getting up an entertainment of some sort on
reiterated: and I knew it came from behind the panels. My first impulse
“Who are her people?” grumbled the old gentleman. “Has she got any?”
“In what order you keep these rooms, Mrs. Fairfax!” said I. “No dust,

smaller features showing the spark of passion, thus invisible to all
      the ladies.”
      was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most
natural presentation. Beyond a natural reason for her slightly drawn
in color and fell in flowing ringlets over her shoulders. Her dress was


      “He is the best landlord, and the best master,” said she, “that

are men whose hearts insist upon a dogged fidelity to some image or
“Oh, yes; there are thousands,” she replied.
      that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and to consent
suffering. I never saw a man in so wretched a condition. We attempted
life? It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now
Thus silently conjured Elizabeth deposited the tray, and her mother
of him to have allowed the thing to remain, even for an hour, in a room

the masses of spruce and larch of Yalbury Wood which clothed the
      they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs.
his mind the trace of my former offence, I had stamped on that
mountain. It is a scene terrifically desolate. In a thousand spots
      left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as
uninteresting in what they are. A great poet, a really great poet, is
aroused him; he uncrossed his legs, sat erect, turned to me.
figure in the midst of the huge enclosure, the unusual plainness of her
good, clear complexion; but she had a capricious and hasty temper, and
Not being in a condition to remove his doubt, I only cast my eyes down
eschewed upbraiding, I curtailed remonstrance; I tried to devour my
soft excitement in your aspect, which told of no bitter, bilious,
“What is that, Harry?” said the lad listlessly.
Yes; the future bridegroom, Mr. Rochester himself, exercised over his
succeeding observations.
exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of
horizon only bounded, lay all outside the high and spike-guarded walls
 Eveline
      was obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to
admissible.
knees, shovel in hand, when the cat overturned the coal-scuttle;

      “But you _will_ know it, when I tell you what happened the very

Chapter 60
“Who is he, anyhow, an actor?”
the black confessionals and long to sit in the dim shadow of one of
our own country.”
“Mr Fogarty.”
out of his parlour to find his hall or passage full of little children,
jewel, to part with it again so soon?
riverbank a tree full of fine fruit. This pleased Dorothy, who had
Of course they had good reason to be fussy on such a night. And then it
      “Dining out,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that is very unlucky.”

him, till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against
cool glass, I looked over at the dark house where she lived. I may have

happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the
“O,” exclaimed Mary Jane. “It’s Bartell D’Arcy singing and he wouldn’t
      all the delight of unpleasant recollections.
attractive, handsome, imposing; while they would pronounce Mr.
“My advice, sir, was to do what you thought best.”
      assure you, that I have your respected mother’s permission for
      it. A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago. I
the ruddy polls of Billy Wills the glazier, Smart the shoemaker,
“Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty,” said Lord Henry,
help to you, I am such a fool.”
“Whose house is it?”
of turf under his oxter,” said Mr Kernan sententiously. “The old system
      disclosure. She dared not relate the other half of Mr. Darcy’s

      more, and down they ran into the dining-room, which fronted the
“Come now, Tom,” said Mr Power, taking his friend by the arm. “No bones
      evening Elizabeth joined their party in the drawing-room. The
and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the
“The fall did not make you ill; what did, then?” pursued Mr. Lloyd when
      not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in
sisters should associate with her.”

which it was said, as for the substance of the speech; the manner was

      Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt

      side, I hope it will not be long before they are. All that is
      pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner
“Mr. Rochester, allow me to disown my first answer: I intended no
immoral—immoral from the scientific point of view.”
Lucetta had grown somewhat wan. “No,” she replied.
      “I must ask whether you were surprised?” said Elizabeth.
Whether he was incensed or surprised, or what, it was not easy to tell:
pool. Someone with a positive manner, perhaps a detective, used the
one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert? How
pride that her husband had photographed her a hundred and twenty-seven

      which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.

strange latitudes. And in autumn airy spheres of thistledown floated
      determine what weather they were to have on the morrow. From
looking from the window adjoining her own. Henchard it appeared, had

bring out the modelling of the features. And I’d try to get hold of
Dorothy, and then shook their heads.
fumbled among its contents for a long time, so long that my hopes began
looking at it again, through Daisy’s eyes. It is invariably saddening
to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage. He
Henchard regarded the sympathetic speaker for a few instants as if she
formed a little party at the corner of the counter. They began to
      Forster instantly, to try to discover her. What he means to do I
      Mr. Collins’s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was
distinctly heard her deny him—deny that he had assisted Donald, that he
him when he smiled. At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of
Lucetta as a young girl would hardly have looked at a tradesman. But
      of Wednesday. His reception, however, was of the most flattering
Hannah was evidently fond of talking. While I picked the fruit, and she

at this moment he is watching the sun rise over the Pyrenees, or on the
which is the most disagreeable part of the business. You must go into
      all for herself. Her astonishment, however, was extreme, and

“Tell me,” he added, glancing first for approval to the lady beside
again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate. My
houses, but preferred to live in chambers as it was less trouble, and


Who blames me? Many, no doubt; and I shall be called discontented. I
“What’s all that?” he demanded.
      them very composedly. Lady Catherine then observed,
every week but he attended to his religious duties and for nine-tenths
ten minutes I was treading the wild track of the glen, side by side
economics, by his zealous promotion of designs for placing the art of
laughed, when he came to the top of the water, and swam in to shore.
“I like her,” said Daisy, “I think she’s lovely.”
A waft of wind came sweeping down the laurel-walk, and trembled through
“Why’s that?”
      said Bingley.
She reddened with shame and sadness.
      Lydia’s sad business has been so well hushed up, and am only
“Do you live down on Long Island, too?” she inquired.
wasted, but quite composed: she looked so little changed that my fear
back yard of the Palace, and the cackling of a hen that had laid a




Elizabeth nodded sadly.
eagerly on his arm.
though I could trace little resemblance to her former self in that
few fields, almost as wild and unproductive as the heath from which
in my bosom.
      am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged
unhappy unless you give me brains.”
Tom’s arrogant eyes roamed the crowd.
existence: to the first ten years of my life I have given almost as



“Well!” I exclaimed, using an expression of the district, “that caps
      “I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second
      tiresome! You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of

They withdrew. Very soon one of the ladies returned—I could not tell
in the lap of the faded, tired-looking woman who, with back turned to

of us with tense, unhappy eyes. However, as calmness wasn’t an end in
know. I’ve been everywhere and seen everything and done everything.”
      Bennet.
      marriage?”
“O, don’t forget the candle, Tom,” said Mr M’Coy, “whatever you do.”
scrape; and, above all things, I wished the result of my endeavours to
sunlight, seemed almost equally inviting. One was formed of new,

remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed wretch who would
country than I have for Botany Bay!”
it. Oh, don’t leave me, don’t leave me.” A fit of passionate sobbing

regard to her. She had quickened them, and now she was indifferent to
“You know that poor fellow Malins?” he said quickly.
Lucetta. “Why, it is a sort of agricultural piano,” she said.
red stain larger than it had been? It seemed to have crept like a
“He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months before the

They carried the sleeping girl to a pretty spot beside the river, far
She took a little basket and filled it with bread from the cupboard,
change in her also. She was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly
“How do you mean?”
persuasion.”
“I think he died for me,” she answered.
wild and rocky appearance, but as I approached nearer I easily perceived
never dreams of considering whether the idea is right or wrong. The
twisted its neck until it died. And then another crow flew at him, and
      Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’
Poor, suffering woman! it was too late for her to make now the effort
fell out of the branches and rolled off on the ground.
“Here, Jane!” he said; and I walked round to the other side of a large
all the sinners in the outside world. The explanation was not very
      that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful; and
      addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia’s relations, for it

“how’s this? Here’s Mrs. Newson, a mere skellinton, has got another
bought a hydroplane, and was going to try it out in the morning.
      at Netherfield as he ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted her fears a

this woman for thy wedded wife?”—when a distinct and near voice said—
bearing on the case.”
her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
myself—or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw myself on


“The glamour of inexperience is over your eyes,” he answered; “and you
however, the heavy supper she had eaten produced a soporific effect:
“Once again, seriously; may I enjoy the great good that has been
sundry tender glances and sighs which we interpreted as tokens of ‘la
more Irish-looking. Perhaps it would be better to insert his mother’s
choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly
      “No; it would have been strange if they had; but I make no doubt
circumstances of the transaction.
The massive towers, the donjon keep,
      often lead me wrong. How you must have hated me after _that_
“I am sure, sir, I should never mistake informality for insolence: one
the windows, and helped him inside. ‘What, Whittle,’ he said, ‘and can
second, or stone bridge, and thence struck into this path of solitude,
“Well, but what?”
      through her means—that _she_, his favourite child, should be

had been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could not alter? The
be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris.
immediately taking his measures.

that night, Jane, though probably you were not aware that I thought of

“There she is!” said Corley.
were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey
“Because you gave me a new name—Jane Rochester; and it seems so
never lived here much; and when he does come, being a bachelor, he

      officiousness of the mother, and heard all her silly remarks with
bonnet at the top of each neck, and parasols across the gloves, Lucetta
The superintendent of Lowood (for such was this lady) having taken her
gentleness, and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles.
      the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.
you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?”


my own reasons for dreading his coming: but come he did at last.
      uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest
wicker chair, looking at them. On a peach-coloured divan sat Lady
“Varry like: but give ower studying; ye’ve done enough for to-night.”



headache. “Bring me a looking-glass. How do I appear to people?” she
      country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to
lad with a good-natured grumble.
absolute little dream.”

second, no less than the first, as kindly as a man can in such a case.”
he had rather taken a fancy. He was so unlike Basil. They made a
you didn’t know.”
you again about this horrible thing, after to-day. I only trust your
wealth, talents, and beauty. But will ye resist the temptation to be
“And there is room enough in Adèle’s little bed for you. You must share
around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way; he was unable to
         Of one who spurned them in his pride.
supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come


finally retired for the night, the inevitable Miss Gryce was still my
      for which I have pledged myself. And will you give yourself the
The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers led the Lion to
“I know nothing about any other two letters,” he said stupidly.
canter up to the door on her pony, followed by a mounted livery
suspected. Yes, I can work as hard as he can, and with as little


waited to see whether she would remain or go in and, if she remained,
to shrink away from a certain desolate area of land. This is a valley
his fortune, without demanding so much as a kiss in return, rather than

      “Miss Elizabeth Bennet.”
punctuality at meals was rigidly enforced at Gateshead Hall.

woman?”
filled up with wood. In one of these was a small and almost
      home, and affording her their personal protection and
make you more comfortable?”
whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and got to his feet.
soon.
      my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust he will


watched him. Words dropped mechanically from her lips. A tattered lace
Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
At least a dozen men, some of them a little better off than he was,
ascent to the third. And then his head rose through the trap behind.
of deeds, a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast, which
scintillated restlessly the polished lenses and the bright gilt rims of
go in much at present for religious art—but to-day I only want a
I soon asked and obtained leave of Mr. Rochester, to go and see her at
you ever hear him, Tom?”
Gallaher? Could he go to London? There was the furniture still to be
Jane?”
      looked at her only to criticise. But no sooner had he made it
extreme cold.” Of these death-white realms I formed an idea of my own:

the prospect as now depicted was hard to acquire.
It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some man, more

grown wheat, which I declare to Heaven I didn’t know to be bad till the
      that their original design of leaving Netherfield that morning


susceptible.
made to work hard during many years for the Wicked Witch, who had
Her coming was my hope each day,
full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on your hopes;
the night-air to invade. I folded my shawl double, and spread it over

_do_ love you, you would be proud and content. All my heart is yours,
drifted on the crooked crosses and headstones, on the spears of the
but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me. I have good
truth—that’s his business. As the strongest man I’ve tied one arm to
      she did not suppose Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an
I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach. With new
“I object to that conversation!” interposed the old woman. “I was not
ricks hollow. Just when I sold the markets went lower, and I bought up
move too quickly: but, in time, I think you will learn to be natural
      absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but
on the same day. That night, on going to bed, I forgot to prepare in
But I’ll drop the idea of establishing him in a shop till I can think
a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and

lurch tonight.”
      concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence,

“You see,” said the Cowardly Lion, with a whimper, “I haven’t the
a general favourite: the ladies are very fond of him; though you would
“Then you _are_ going to be married, sir?”

sharper. And the result was she hardly knew what she was saying.”
sum I had given, and I was not possessed of another shilling in the
      sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second
“Three guineas—going for three guineas!” said the rheumy man.
neighbourhood; recklessness dwelt under the roof with the crooked
      survive such a blow as this. She was humbled, she was grieved;
a black and scarlet rug covered the foot. A little hand-mirror hung
be severally recognized by his nose. But as sitting down to hob-and-nob

shell of his hands, peered again into the mouth which Mr Kernan opened
most affectionate mother. For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that,
the West, who would make you her slave if you passed her way.”
arranged on the sideboard; each had taken what he chose, and they stood
whom my wife ran away played Chopin exquisitely. Poor Victoria! I was
so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised
the Finn. Together we scrutinized the twelve lemon cakes from the
blooming and glowing; they lay stark, chill, livid corpses that could
Copêt. Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another
and to be marvelled at, some authentically radiant young girl who with
corners, where they lay shuddering. But the strange expression that he
the thought that he regarded the moral necessity now; it was, indeed,
      partiality, especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him
friends to think there had been some mistake, that Mr Harford and he
sweet;” serene inward feelings bud and bloom under the ray. At this
      less prosperous. His pride never deserts him; but with the rich
lady. “As for thee, Christopher, we know what ye be, and the less said

Henchard’s tombstone. The personage was in mourning like herself, was
      actually staying in his colonel’s family, that I am strongly
you disdained every part but that of the giver and protector.”

embraced more than the Jewish ethical code his fellow-Catholics,
tigers—jealousy and despair: then, my heart torn out and devoured, I
bumpkins.
shuns the old place.”

Neither of our pedestrians had much heart for these things, and they
and permanent. I consented. When Diana and Mary returned, the former
moments of night and life.
“Ah, I can see you are a bookworm like myself. Now,” he added, pointing
trade-antagonism to the Mayor that he refused his first customer—a
outside words, with this man of moods, glooms, and superstitions. Her
      the course of three or four months. Of having another daughter
forebore yet. I laid my hand on the back of a chair for support: I
patronising Ireland by his visit.

reserve a moiety of this bounteous repast for myself; but the remainder
      When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to
to be still inconsolable for his loss?”
a young Russian lady of moderate fortune, and having amassed a considerable
society simultaneously with the preparations for the skimmington. It
feet high in his apartment. The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland,
worn by the priest. Sometimes he had amused himself by putting
myself better.”
“I shall be glad to have your company,” said Dorothy.
place, I thought it better to take her civilities quietly.
them—at least most of the younger ones—looked handsome; but Miss Ingram
he leaned over the table and required an answer by a second firm and
family. My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I
might be between eleven and twelve o’clock—ere I retired to my dreary
      expectation of the kind. Such relief, however, as it was in her
long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their
“You must. You have no choice. Don’t delay.”
kinsfolk, the Eyres?”
“but if you go I certainly shall go with you.”
knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for
“It is true,” said Elizabeth-Jane. “But it was only—”
The next phase of the supersession of Henchard in Lucetta’s heart was
borne towards him from the past. He longed to be alone with her. When
of people, to whom one may at any time safely communicate a remarkable

citron-green leather, with a design of gilt trellis-work and dotted
confidential chat of people full of reciprocity; but on closer view it
candle in the office and went before them to the stairs. They followed


hour when the Christian Brothers’ School set the boys free. An
am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind? You, my creator,
During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the
Dorian, pouring himself out some wine and frowning slightly.
she was then.”
“What day would suit you?” he corrected me quickly. “I don’t want to
sequestered spot for interviews, the cheerfullest form of those

while he came in with his message, and then went away forgetting where
said to her, “my twenty-one years had expired before this came on, or I
quietly—so firmly?” I asked of myself. “Were I in her place, it seems
he answered. “I asked the question for the best reason possible, for
The butler came back and murmured something close to Tom’s ear,
events have no reason for delay upon the road by seeing him there when
instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my
      schemes, which the good humour and common politeness of Bingley,

“Why isn’t he in jail?”

me.”
of other countries a matter of indifference. The people, too, who were
great desert that surrounds this Land of Oz. I’m afraid, my dear, you
with the genius of the haunt: with his eye he bade farewell to
them. Indeed, as he leaned back against the crag behind him, folded his
suppers and don’t mind me. I’m quite well able to take care of myself.”
brow; now St. John’s long hair that waved; and anon the devilish face
 Chapter 5
      Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled. Elizabeth could not help saying,
      away I was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no
home directly. Diana said they would both consider themselves rich with
“Oh, quite peacefully, ma’am,” said Eliza. “You couldn’t tell when the

      him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear,
      a report is spread abroad?”

impression her injustice seems to have made on your heart! No ill-usage
I relate our misfortune? Absence cannot have rendered you callous to
      further attempt to distinguish Elizabeth; and they parted at last
she says you have always been in the habit of giving her playthings;
Farfrae, it was with a dim dread; and he often regretted that he had
      not what to make of him. Colonel Fitzwilliam’s occasionally
violation of their last wishes, revisiting the earth to punish the
She strained her eyes up the lessening road, but nothing appeared


      the lady from whom they sprang. Poor Charlotte! it was melancholy
day the picture had been finished. Yes, he remembered it perfectly. He
      hands with the former. Elizabeth took leave of the whole party in
hand-rail, as if she would make a friend of it in her misery. Rigid in
left the window, and moved with little noise across the carpet; as I

upward. Ha-ha—how cust odd it is! Here be I, his former master, working
      should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make him

_gentlemen_, let them be solicitous to possess only strength and
taken so little the day before.
at this moment—with which your eyes are now almost overflowing—with
slenderly handsome. He wore genteel cloth leggings with white buttons,
“If anybody will tell me how to turn grown wheat into wholesome wheat
“Brother? Yes; at the distance of a thousand leagues! Sisters? Yes;
As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and looking at Dorian

suffer from your dishonest coquetry? Won’t she feel forsaken and
follow. Why should I not love her? Harry, I do love her. She is
      be alleviated on his side, by preparations for the reception of
fatigue. He pronounced it needless to send for a doctor: nature, he was
      window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving
“What _can_ you mean? It may be of no moment to you; you have sisters

Yet as little could he endure that a son of his should be a poor man. I
Lucetta flung back the curtain with a nervous greeting. The man before
      shall go to my brother, and make him come home with me to

He is not of your order: keep to your caste, and be too self-respecting
    The least assistance lend.
“How—comes it to be you—you?” she asked, not heeding his reply.
“Rest your brains and do not worry about the wall,” replied the





      qualities. Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed
lineaments below were seen as through the suffusion of vapour; the eyes
“Have you, then, some other attachment?”

making a just division of the property—as they must in their own hearts
and looking horribly pale. “But I thought it was my duty. It is not my
      her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her
I am afraid the whole of the ensuing week tried his patience. It was
can’t stay doing nothing, and my best chance is elsewhere.”
“But I feel this, Helen; I must dislike those who, whatever I do to



      affectionate treatment of herself, she endeavoured to forget what

“Jane, my little darling (so I will call you, for so you are), you
I briefly related to him what had transpired: the strange laugh I had

“Oh, no,” said the first girl, “it couldn’t be that, because he was in
have attracted the attention of any casual observer otherwise disposed

she was.
Now while the tinsmiths had been at work mending the Woodman himself,
“Exactly so!” declared the little man, rubbing his hands together as if

was leaned against the window curtains and in her nostrils was the
contemporaries have yet recognised; because I regard him as the first
      him, she was a little relieved by his smile. In a few minutes he
through; the two ladies stopped: Mary, in a few words, kindly and
a certain extent, on my confidence. I will tell you as much of the
“Where is he?” asked the Stork.
“Elizabeth, do you think much of old times?” said Henchard.

      connection must plead my apology.”
      everybody, too, who is likely to know.”
added on his own initiative a tin of large, hard dog biscuits—one of
soon see Geneva. The past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream;
Dorian shook his head. “It is a bad omen, Harry. I feel as if something
“I do not speak to the feeble, or think of them: I address only such as
that before?”
his version of it, and he did so with great vivacity for the sight of
“As you do, Bessie?”

way. I keep out. When I was a young man it was different—if a friend

Priest were “made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake
as is vice from virtue. Men too often confound them: they should not be
a distressed woman! If you could see me you would relent. You do not
Surely I should not be wholly disappointed to-night, when I had so many
      In revolving Lady Catherine’s expressions, however, she could not
craggy, nor so like barriers of separation from the living world; but
      tell us what relations he has now living, better than any other
country. There are no temptations there. That is the reason why people
engagement to go out.
hiding-place of those who were in distress, and in debt, and trouble of
“Don’t imagine such hard things. Fancy me yielding and melting, as I am
Henchard had come up, accidentally encountering the young man, whose
itself among the qualities of a man he had hitherto thought

This they decided to do. The next day they called the Winkies together
always ready to give him the hard word. He was often to be seen walking

wished that they had never been written.
stamping, clattering process, accompanied by a barking and baying which
Besides Villona’s humming would confuse anybody; the noise of the car,
Nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion? You sit quietly where I
“What a love of a child!”
entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father
quilt.”
Gabriel heard his wife answer yes and saw her come down towards them. A
press of business below. And leaving the room, she descended the stairs
the street, waggoners going to the harness-makers for articles left to
      her thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon
      Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her
      tranquillity.
“It is too fine,” said she. “I can make nothing of such a hand as that;
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into
“I am not fit for it: I have no vocation,” I said.
eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly—I was roused by half
enough to keep him so,” she said luminously; and Elizabeth thought, in
caught cold and was confined to his room—possibly a result of standing
“O, yes, positively,” said Little Chandler.

“That’s what ruins children,” said Mr O’Connor.

slaughtered it at the shambles, he would not have rued his bloody


answer, and the man was silent.
directed me to a correct choice: I thank His providence for the
but her tone was not such as to make the allusion a warning. Her name
For she was sitting on the broad Kansas prairie, and just before her
      “My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to
      was it in his power to bestow!—how much of good or evil must be
now? That’s that. That’s where he first saw the light.”
mystery; yet with how many things are we upon the brink of becoming
become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into
Chapter 39
to get the ring and, though Fleming had said that for so many Hallow
_Speak_ I must: I had been trodden on severely, and _must_ turn: but
suspected that he meant my grass.
engagement—to put off all thought of marriage for a year or two.”
After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and
him. He felt perfectly happy.
possibly let you stand in front of that picture.”
Lucetta’s reply was taken from her lips by an unexpected diversion. A
thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her
kept it averted from the stranger.
meaning. I was about to speak when she sat up alertly and said “Sh!”
it.”
“Sphinxes without secrets.”
and——”
opening the window for?”
the low, black door, opened by Mr. Rochester’s master-key, admitted us
last time our relative visited this fair he said he was living at

use to me in my present undertaking. The latter method of obtaining


heard the pattering of tiny feet, and many of the small gray mice came
streets. On his long and rather large head grew dry black hair and a
the wink of an eye. All you have to do is to knock the heels together
“Ask something more,” he said presently; “it is my delight to be
what to do. Suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain. “Stop,” he
read instead of studying your Roman History? Let me not find any more
was glad that he had suggested coming with her. She thought her plans
Liberty, Excitement, Enjoyment: delightful sounds truly; but no more
George, listen to me. Didn’t you get married in a church?”

exhausted, and suffering greatly now for want of food, I turned aside
      ladies set off together.
      It was a comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not
shut himself up like a hermit at the Hall.”

unwillingness, I suppose she had begun dealing in subterfuges when she



rose to draw down the blind, which she had hitherto kept up, by way, I
      bandbox! Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk
white human form shone in the azure, inclining a glorious brow
fresh leggings, kneenaps and corduroys, and in other ways gone back to
The morning sun was streaming through the crevices of the canvas when



the china girl cried out:

done in such a wretched hole of a place. Still, I felt interested, in a
since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her. In a few minutes they
I felt pain, and then I felt ire; and then I felt a determination to
herself, as most old women do, while she read; she did not desist
The scene in its broad aspect had so much of its previous character,
this position, more and more words fell successively upon her ear. But
      They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner,
his own nephew. He felt savage and thirsty and revengeful, annoyed with

“Turn them out of the room, sir, if I could.”
can secure my great end: but I shall urge you no further at present.
      attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to
said: “You remember the note sent to you and Mr. Farfrae—asking you to
      than the report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming

indifferent to results? Did it merely take cognizance of what passed
the joys of connubial bliss. Two years ago, wasn’t it?”
He knew it was Farfrae’s gig descending the hill from an indescribable
nourishing a hope of seeing the attractive Scotchman. The fact was


It was this night that he told me the strange story of his youth with
      Most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time
awake I be up. I’ve fretted my gizzard green about it, maister, but

What a cold, loose touch, he impressed on my fingers! He was deeply
at his antagonist’s mercy.


son? I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is
surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first

seeing!”


One day Henchard was at this spot when a masculine figure came along
me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children.

beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even
Of course I did not—I had never heard of him before; but the old lady

chin was sustained by the same principle, in a position of almost
some sample-bags on a table, not the corn-merchant, but the young
beginning, with the aid of his assistant, to unhook the picture from
out in the carriage with their mama. Abbot, too, was sewing in another
grey windows disappeared as the house glowed full of light.
      beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty

consented to play one or two accompaniments. Mrs Kearney had to stand
      Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his
      credit on either.”
wrong. But, with God’s grace, I will rectify this and this. I will set


Farfrae attended, left off conscious mannerisms, left off putting him
with a grave shake of the head.
“What’s funny?”
      suffer from all his life.”
poppies in her hands. Of course, now and then things linger. I once
warmed her and made her feel less lonely. She and Toto ate the last of


the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance
      “Can you come to-morrow?”
of some of the finest artists of the French school of _Symbolistes_.
      Mr. Gardiner this moment, on business that cannot be delayed; I
And I don’t think it really matters about your not being there. The

and curtseyed to them: one or two bent their heads in return, the

sailor who had taken Susan Henchard on the spur of the moment and on

I bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped, who
But perhaps it had been only his fancy that had called vengeance out of

“Have you ever had any such feeling?” said the younger innocently.
large farmer of good repute—because Henchard and this man had dealt
may easily be found. I should prefer this plan of receiving them to

      fair. Lady Catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us

“Prove it,” I rejoined.
pertinaciously sought mine, though I averted both face and gaze. He
purchases. And then,” cried Farfrae impetuously, his face alight, “I
      as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you

curst conjuror should be right after all!” said Henchard.
      without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings
of shame. Some love might come across his life, and purify him, and
rooms lofty, and the landings wide; and the two unassuming women

      “That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mrs. Bennet,
      little _endeavour_ at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of
      in their concerns, as I often see done.”
rabidly devoured the ideal;—I pronounced judgment to this effect:—
      she was affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could


      of their employments. Very frequently were they reproached for


was helped into the house. His wife put him to bed while Mr Power sat
“You don’t know him—don’t pronounce an opinion upon him,” I said, with
      distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley’s, she
“Of course not,” answered Dorothy. “How should I?”
to Mr Alleyne for his impertinence but he knew what a hornet’s nest the
London paper for him. Could he write something original? He was not
The lad listened sulkily to her and made no answer. He was heart-sick
when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what
      imagine it was from any silly cause. I was only confused for the
undiscoverable?”
rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its
not quenched his soul or hers. Their children, his writing, her
rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms.
in his presence I thoroughly lived; and he lived in mine. Blind as he

On that same occasion I learned, for the first time, from Miss Abbot’s
They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions

their conversation.
“I mean all you Scotchmen,” she added in hasty correction. “So free
      Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and
      still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody,
      it has lost all its value!”
scenes of evil and despair. I considered the being whom I had cast
it was a lovely summer morning: I know my shoes, which I had put on
When the cab drew up before the hotel, Gabriel jumped out and, in spite



yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her
of my voice wherever I wish, so that you thought it was coming out of

“But two months: they met in October at the county ball at S——. But
on before, were not to be found. We accordingly rested on a seat until
the hiatus by a homily of an hour’s length, in which she proved beyond
in a measure committed to the first: to what extent she spoke of these

suffered enough at that worrying time, when you wrote to tell me of
you never appeal to Heaven in prayers so hopeless and so agonised as in
emotion and speaking out.
face; for, all at once, without speaking, he struck suddenly and
      Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had
Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country
passage-light could be seen from where he stood. Having kept his eyes
the sofas. After a short time, he came to himself and looked round with
forest Dorothy lay down and slept, for she was tired by the long walk.
remains—revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food! I may die, but
travelling without horses that’s getting so common, my work will soon
learned from Werter’s imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch
      with the other. I hope we may often meet again.”

      “I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive
“I shall gather manna for her morning and night: the plains and
“My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have befallen
Refreshed by this, Mahony chased a cat down a lane, but the cat escaped
approach the window-recess—which his table, chair, and desk consecrated
witnessed by the Royal Personage, who, however, with practised tact
surely I shall see him before night: I feared the meeting in the

“He was in the gasworks,” she said.
      “very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_. But do
      “Yes, madam,” said Mrs. Bennet, delighted to speak to Lady
“Never mind the patch,” exclaimed the happy Woodman. “I am very
“You will give up your governessing slavery at once.”
on the sensual mouth. The sodden eyes had kept something of the
and Farfrae as often made it convenient to create an accidental meeting
      attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the last so steady, that in his
was soon chopped nearly through. Then the Lion put his strong front
“Don’t run down dyed hair and painted faces. There is an extraordinary
roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go. If
some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his
come in, and I sat down in a quiet corner and watched them. I never saw

place was cleared for dancing.
      on that head, she eagerly communicated the cause of their


      impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am—and nothing

civil to him or her, as if you did not mind it—so you’ll take the
write for a paper like that. I didn’t think you were a West Briton.”

bird voices in the trees.

“Oh, brothers! I don’t care for brothers. My elder brother won’t die,
of the office. As he was passing out the chief clerk looked at him
But as a memory, nothwithstanding such conditions, Lucetta’s image
“You know the advertisement of the man—”
arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim legs.
far end of the field. I watched him lazily as I chewed one of those

      to think that she might have been Mr. Collins’s wife by this

Ireland, I shall never see you again, Jane: that’s morally certain. I
but perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances which
education. He would fail with them just as he had failed with the girl
demeanour, and for a moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a
and span: the cook said you could see yourself in the big copper
      and want of resolution, will do the business.”

launched hit the mark, and infatuatedly pluming herself on success,

“In the sacred college, you know, of cardinals and archbishops and
pile of wood on the outside. She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the
“Remember!—No conversation,” he left the room. I experienced a strange
      thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that
“I suppose he never knew me?” the girl innocently continued.
old constable came up.
      “I am not likely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me,
every morning in Gardiner Street and the peaceful odour of Mrs Dillon
“How can I do that? If you are true, and your offer real, my only
heat, leaving them out of sight behind.
her chair. She began muttering,—
return I shall be as other men are.”
A word from her mother roused her. Without preface, and as the
he could command his countenance thoroughly.
      my other girls they are nothing to _her_. You have a sweet room
in the Scotchman now disappeared.

buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window. It was
      not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will
“Now, Aunt Kate, you’re giving scandal to Mr Browne who is of the other
At this point Miss Baker said: “Absolutely!” with such suddenness that
dimensions only—in other words, flat as a shadow—were standing in a row
called Elizabeth from her breakfast, and entering her friend’s bedroom
“That is easily done,” replied the Scarecrow. “The Tin Woodman must

“As soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of

The horse was whipped up and the cab rattled off along the quay amid a
      walk to Meryton, and to see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth
ascending any particular hill he ascertained the bearings as nearly as
done.”
heightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if he were related
“He wants to know,” continued Jordan, “if you’ll invite Daisy to your
Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the
other—warm or cold, passionate or frigid. You have both temperatures


Delacour was a middle-aged woman of Jewish appearance. Mr Alleyne was
was ‘the Varens,’ shining in satin and jewels,—my gifts of course,—and
“Certainly,” answered the Queen; “but it is a great way off, for you
      appeared. Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and
rescue their friends, and the Winkies said that they would be delighted

phone.

behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.
      Jane looked at her doubtingly. “Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know
hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my spirits, when
neighbours concentrated on your back. You disappeared for a time; then


well-known characters. The self-repression, the resignation of her
All the house was still; for I believe all, except St. John and myself,
landlady was a virtuous woman who years ago had been unjustly sent to
many capitals and seemed inclined to award the palm to Berlin. Some
in the end he had become rich enough to be alluded to in the Dublin
“Instantly killed,” repeated Tom, staring.
I’m the man you met then. I was not in my senses, and a man’s senses
understand.”

      “He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has
her.”
air, being carried by a cyclone. So I believe the best way to get
that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear.

were curiously silent for such a comparatively early hour. A sound of
hideous a burden for him to bear. The dreadful death of the unlucky
touched. Diana offered to teach me German. I liked to learn of her: I
What a still, hot, perfect day! What a golden desert this spreading

directed by the lay-brother, walked on tiptoe along the aisles until
      _now_ of this sad business of Jane’s? For my part, I am
      something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to


practical joke, and I revealed nothing.”
The room, shadowed well with awnings, was dark and cool. Daisy and
our belief in the soul. Play me something. Play me a nocturne, Dorian,
space. With an effort she glanced down at the table.
girl, and t’other half woman, as one may say. And canst mind”—she
Pilot was with him:—what has he done with the animals?”

      teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow
      however, she felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have
about the question of an inn than about the fate of his note, now that

fixture now.”
“My dear,” she cried, “I’m going to give you this dress as soon as I’m

respite from the gnawing fang of melancholy. I would not, therefore,
liberally. One strong proof of my wretchedly defective nature is, that
“In the name of God,” said Mr Henchy, “where’s the analogy between the
wherever I stamped my hoof, your sylph’s foot shall step also. Ten
and all abused roundly. Poor things! it was the sole consolation they
perhaps, and if so, it’s a great pity to waste our time like this, and
      spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many
have drunk deeply of everything. You have crushed the grapes against
garage—Repairs. George B. Wilson. Cars bought and sold.—and I followed
their patterns may have been such as those illustrious carpenters never
      invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and in the
had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and
teetotaller,” said Nance Mockridge. “She’ll wish her cake dough afore
a light kindling in a window: it reminded me that I was late, and I
be regretting my loss, and thinking how to repair it; but when my

Gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and

thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me.
“Well, we usually go to France or Belgium or perhaps Germany,” said
and realized that dawn wasn’t far off. About five o’clock it was blue
lovely: a fervent, a solemn passion is conceived in my heart; it leans
“Yes, I saw her. The dining-room doors were thrown open; and, as it was

“My Uncle Reed is in heaven, and can see all you do and think; and so
decision: certainly, I cannot for a moment blame him for it. It is
situation; new regulations were made; improvements in diet and clothing


is not the first time that we have been the recipients—or perhaps, I


heart’s core. Strange!” he exclaimed, suddenly starting again from the

Fitzpatrick’s vacant smile irritated her very much. However, she said
“I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety
“You will when you are out of the country: when you get back to Spanish

      to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
“No, it’s not exactly a police dog,” said the man with disappointment
Chapter IX
mortal commercial combat. He could no longer parry the fierce attacks

“No, no. I couldna sing to-night! It’s Henchard—he hates me; so that I
“Open the whisky, Tom,” she ordered, “and I’ll make you a mint julep.

ears against the voice that kept warning me of near separation and

the past.
young woman’s memory to read at such length to a stranger what was
and abundance of laughter. As for Freddy Malins he was speechless with
      be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins,
How I looked while these ideas were taking my spirit by storm, I cannot
      not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone.”

Henrietta Street. The golden sunset was waning and the air had grown



“Twenty thousand pounds?”
mine in justice, though it might in law. I abandon to you, then, what
fate awaiting me. Learn from me, dear lady, to submit in patience to

agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet
We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast;

he was over there. He’d open your eye.... I say, Tommy, don’t make

      Colonel Fitzwilliam’s words; and those strong objections probably
put to it, she could believe also in the banshee and in the Holy Ghost.
      forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be
recall what I had heard of dead men, troubled in their graves by the


together; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving

“It was frantic folly to do so, Jane. Think of the task you
greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious
I was scared, I can tell you; I’d never seen a girl like that before.
      continued:
“What is the matter, Julia?” asked Aunt Kate anxiously. “Who is it?”
later I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood
 CHAPTER VI.
myself, Harry,” he murmured with something of a sigh of relief. “I felt
“Who is Aunt Em?” inquired the little old woman.
learn them. They are perfectly charming.”
      ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine

      Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made
faces. There was the trampling of myriad feet and the low buzz of
I said my evening prayers
      to Mr. Collins. Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
the admiration of all who knew her, after which she again lived in my
money matter? Love is more than money.”

of life. I don’t know what I expected, but I went out and wandered
“Yes, sir; early.”
She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’d take care of me

but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her

 CHAPTER XIX.
arrived at Casterbridge as a Bath lady, and there were obvious reasons

which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet. How I
hand over the paper. “There’s time enough to-morrow. Come indoors with
formed at this moment much the same picture as he had presented when
      sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the

feeling that he would like to pass a few minutes on the spot of his
thoughts.”
blushing girl as much as to say: _O, I know all about it!_ They
small cherry mouth; I desired to be tall, stately, and finely developed
scandalously. She had spared neither trouble nor expense and this was


      eight years old, and two younger boys, were to be left under the
for and with what I love best on earth. I hold myself supremely
their way to dingy, and yellow, and red. The grassy margin of the bank,
thought, how full they are of passion, of voluptuous longing!... Why

      When the ladies removed after dinner, Elizabeth ran up to her
I saw that for some reason of his own he was determined not to come,
and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation,
      self-importance in his letter, which promises well. I am
      information? He has given in all his debts; I hope at least he
      he, with a look of doubt.
The spot was a vale between two gentle acclivities, and the road, still


“Gone over to Morton for a walk; but they would be back in half-an-hour

after do three times the bidding of the owner of the Golden Cap. This

the scene.
“There’s no saying he won’t, if you be willing to sell.” And having
Selby, and that it had got mislaid or stolen on the way. You never got

No one knew; a voice said:




the floor.
footmen and crept upstairs. They knocked, but there was no reply. They

ceremony. By Mr. Rochester they were not observed; he was earnestly
when I made any attempt to propitiate him. No ruth met my ruth. _He_
“I think, ma’am, that a word or two from you would secure for me what I
      had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made
of the way of the mirror and the windows.”
Maria was delighted to see the children so merry and Joe and his wife
      have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual
      long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out. I dare say I
of shrub nor flower; it is—I know it well—it is Mr. Rochester’s cigar.
“But how about my courage?” asked the Lion anxiously.
      said Elizabeth, “and how much is settled on his side on our
The conversation, thus turned on Adèle, continued till we reached the
      Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and
eye fell on me by chance, would withdraw it instantly as from an object


hardihood thus to open a conversation with a stranger; the step was
He selected one of the cards and read what was printed on it:
stepfather was, entered the room with a pale and agonized countenance.
nor do I now acknowledge any, for I am not her father; but hearing that

      himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sister’s attachment;
“It is odd,” said Henchard, “that two men should meet as we have done
chocolate on a tray and opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping quite

mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found
      civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to
eyes. I was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine, and I lost
when he found the father inexorable, quitted his country, nor returned

      with his sister.
the Mayor to the washerwoman, shone in new vesture according to means;
it, and assured me she would not stir thence till I was ready. This I

      “My dear Lizzy,


sat down Mr. Wolfshiem drank his coffee with a jerk and got to his
companions, and they sat down and looked at her, and Toto found that
you can bring your drinks.”

      done and much had been said in the regiment since the preceding
“Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! What an awful lesson!” There was no
“Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his shoulders a
faculties, wrest my tastes from their original bent, force myself to
to him, “I may do so now—I may look for you. You are always there, are
it, then, a bonfire just kindled?” I questioned. I watched to see
concerned.
Rochester entering. I step aside into the ivy recess; he will not stay
sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of
disappeared, reappeared, made plans to go somewhere, and then lost
Bessie, we will leave her: I wouldn’t have her heart for anything. Say
just two doors from the church. And he stayed three weeks, until Daddy

grown as long as mine. One of the taxi drivers in the village never
“What a fuss people make about fidelity!” exclaimed Lord Henry. “Why,
“This lad,” said Mr Henchy.
away from you. You are silly, because, suffer as you may, you will not
earnest and had a beautiful nature. I at once pictured to myself a

as ever to avoid discovery, I had before resolved to assume an _alias_.
shape, stiffened in line, exaggerated in traits; disciplined,
      Bourgh, and of her mother Lady Catherine. How wonderfully these
return. They would be happy together. His life with her would be
colour. The life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical


      Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
I wanted to get somebody for him. I wanted to go into the room where

the results of your idiocy, however bad and insufferable they may be. I
      Elizabeth.

A man followed in a few minutes, and her face being to-wards the shine
My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during
scenery—in May and June—and you would never say ’tis the land of wolves
“What does this mean?” cried Hallward, at last. His own voice sounded
worm i’ the bud—Henchard; what he could tell!
“Remembered what, Harry?”
“I will never again come to your side: I am torn away now, and cannot

people’s emotions were!—much more delightful than their ideas, it

XXVI.

and smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.


yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools!
“By nobody—at present: that’s his order,” she was informed.

That laugh was not encouraging to strangers, and hence it may have been

her desk. She had directed it in these words:—
what the gods give they quickly take away. You have only a few years in
“Then send for them all to come here as soon as possible, and let each
weed grew here and there between the stones and fallen rafters. And oh!


world,” he said. “And I wish for your sakes ’twas more.”
      with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good
adding to the liking.
“No row. Why? Did she say so?”
He sat down at the table and wrote a few lines, next taking from his

Probably, if I had lately left a good home and kind parents, this would

“It’s a mystery,” replied the Lion. “I suppose I was born that way. All
      open; and though evidently regretting that her visitors were to
he had left it.”
in about an hour Thornfield Hall was again as hushed as a desert. It
------------------------------------------------------------------------
      knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any

      different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.”
our lives depend. Browning writes about that somewhere; but our own


of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his conduct
Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled. “It is nothing,
as though there was more struggling upon them than a wisp of startled
Ever since the evening of his wife’s arrival with her daughter there

sauntered out upon the landing, and descended the staircase.
all, I bar the candles!”
After the collision with the Mayor, Henchard had withdrawn behind the
cannot find it. Millions are condemned to a stiller doom than mine, and
yours, and you are mine; and we shall leave earth, and make our own
“Yes.”
with his silver-and-black armour piled at his feet. What had this man’s
      “Whatever my connections may be,” said Elizabeth, “if your nephew


“May I live with you, and tend upon you as I used to do? I do not mind
      pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter
chin. Then Ginger Mooney lifted up her mug of tea and proposed Maria’s
Roaring noon. In a well-fanned Forty-second Street cellar I met Gatsby
Elizabeth-Jane, whom he had not seen for a week. “It was lucky,” he

“Good-bye!” they all answered, and away the Queen ran, while Dorothy
      not wait on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him
Diana (I knew her by the long curls which I saw drooping between me and

her views had been disturbed by enlightenment, was demanded no more.
      gentlemen appeared. Their powers of conversation were
“But what has mademoiselle to do with it? I don’t care for the fairy:
“And why do they call it Institution? Is it in any way different from
Lord Henry looked at him. Yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome,
“Wouldn’t you like some coffee?” I urged him.

one of a lamp quenched, waiting to be re-lit—and alas! it was not
and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period

appalling miracle. He covered his eyes and bowed his head. Without
He didn’t like to go into the garage, because the work bench was
arms were examined and compared and finally it was agreed to have a
now.”
Fogarty.
“When America was discovered,” said the Radical member—and he began to
date was an extremely probable one, there being no reason for delay on
and miscellaneous remark.
      the latter with decent philosophy. To be sure, it would have been

      song or two, and before she could reply to the entreaties of
rooms, and departed from the house by the back way as he had come; and
“How can I cross the desert?” she inquired.
room.
haste; my trunk was hoisted up; I was taken from Bessie’s neck, to
though my ancestors in Jersey were as good as anybody in England. They
said—or something in me said for me, and in spite of me—
had been arguing and arguing against it, stood up and shouted out with
house—the wrong house. But no one knows the woman’s name, and no one

for?” she inquired.
“God bless you, my children!”
“Yes,” he continued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of
      officers themselves. Mr. Philips visited them all, and this

“O, of course, Lyons spots the drink first thing!” said Mr O’Connor,
theirs too. Were we not four? Twenty thousand pounds shared equally

      the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle
“Not by any means.”
He went towards Durnover. On his way he overtook Farfrae. They walked
      the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s
passionate head there stormed this thought—that the blasting disclosure
precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence
      inconvenient. Adieu! I take up my pen again to do what I have
ceased. The roars of sarcastic laughter went off in ripples, and the
I didn’t know you were gone to church to be wed;” and she basted away.

can’t fathom! Now then, the Fourth Psalm, to Samuel Wakely’s tune, as

      “Ah, you do not know what I suffer.”
balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful
“Utter it, Jane: but I wish that instead of a mere inquiry into,
      fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting them know that the

“And I think I shall need their service just those three times,”
storm-beat shrub, with ceaseless rain sweeping away wildly before a
nothing better than to find himself at the head of a well-laden table.
      for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his
beginning and had mainly made him what he was. Instead of thinking that
perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had
The refreshing meal, the brilliant fire, the presence and kindness of

was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act
      opinion, heightened the sense of what Jane had lost. His
      the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by
believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we
should have begged a piece of bread; for I was now brought low.
I uncovered it, and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame. I
to be crammed to the doors.”
often hidden himself as a boy. There the satinwood book-case filled
so, too, was the foreground; or rather, the nearest billows, for there
and slapping himself indecisively on the knee of his caramel-coloured
face of bronze. Then they had come to know each other. He used to meet
“Killed herself! Good heavens! is there no doubt about that?” cried
something more to say. Then he sighed and went out.
      propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say that from his
gray place you call Kansas.”
“What place is that?” I asked.
One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan. He was walking ahead
and deeply gratified.
“The husbands of very beautiful women belong to the criminal classes,”
stripling, just afore I’d got man’s wages, whereas I never enjoy my bed


apparently sunk into the earth on leaving Mr. and Mrs. Farfrae’s door.
mustard-seed? This little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled cheek and
short cut to the ill-famed place where he was going, he felt himself
scheme: the sequel showed I was mistaken on both points. He addressed
      moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during
to wander while Miss Miller explained the lesson and questioned you.
“She’ll happen do better for him nor ony o’ t’ grand ladies.” And
feelings and cheering my gloom; their angelic countenances breathed

“Out with ’em, and come along, for Heaven’s sake! Ah, here’s Mr.

Baker, with several feet of twilight between them, strolled back into
“I’m coming to that, ma’am—that Mr. Edward fell in love with. The
nearly an hour on the hearth listening to the muffled fury of the

      amongst the less polished societies of the world.—Every savage

wound many coils about his body and head and legs, until he was unable
Elizabeth, in the meantime, had breathed him a sigh, recovered her
“I say so,” replied the sailor.
the matter was settled. She now simply waited to see the lady again.
cautiously with his left hand lest he should waken the child and began
      is engaged to _my daughter_. Now what have you to say?”
      meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any
The same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her
So the big bird flew into the air and over the water till she came to
prematurely grey, and a broad and genial face. He had crossed on the
art. Vice and virtue are to the artist materials for an art. From the
      Darcy! It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley
      pianoforte is exquisite.”
must be, what—five foot nine, I reckon? I am six foot one and a half
“C’est là ma gouvernante!” said she, pointing to me, and addressing her
      expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. She went on:
knowledge.”
his suicide had been his own act. He had chosen to do it. It was
      Charlotte’s domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a
nourishment. It rubbed people’s cheeks like damp flannel when they
you have noticed this?”
end. This ominous tool she presented to Miss Scatcherd with a
Farfrae he would probably have had pity upon her at that moment. But
He made a circle in the air with his arm and paused. Everyone laughed


vanishing amidst the wildest scenery, when at one dim point, far in
      the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that
to have her all to myself. Is there a fire in the library?”
“I’ve got to speak to you about something before you go.”
peril. It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors.
which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures. And although I
“What I mean is,” said old Cotter, “it’s bad for children. My idea is:
      a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone,
women never appeal to one’s imagination. They are limited to their
she read omnivorously. A gratuitous ordeal was in store for her in the
      closed his book. He was directly invited to join their party, but

very light plum-pudding. He eyed this food earnestly for some time and
book, on the perusal of which she seemed intent: from where I stood I
We are so grateful to you for having killed the Wicked Witch of the

man’s departure. “Ah, my lad,” he said, “you should have been a wise
“Don’t talk to me about her, John: I told you not to go near her; she
with rage, arguing with her husband and daughter, gesticulating with

“If the lodgings are in High Street they are dear, I suppose?”
and despised, every country must be equally horrible. At length the
      influence of Lydia’s example, she became, by proper attention and
      and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given

smiling now. And there is worse behind. I know you and Harry are
      spend the day with them. She was met in the vestibule by Lydia,
Entering the gate and passing the shrubs, the silhouette of a house
“You don’t—you don’t—’tis quite understood,” said Wide-oh, without a
July 7th, 17—.
woman with a pale face walked through the room. The women followed with
      great uncle the judge. They are in the same profession, you know,
“I do, hee-hee, I do!” said Christopher Coney.
carpets were laid down, bed-hangings festooned, radiant white
      “I am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.
the window. How cool it must be outside! How pleasant it would be to
little elderly lady, in widow’s cap, black silk gown, and snowy muslin
Dorothy heard a voice say:
affected during the giving of her own evidence, and that of Dr.
hair—which is somewhat dishevelled; and bathe your face—which looks
“Sure he went.” Mr. Wolfshiem’s nose flashed at me indignantly. “He

out if you spoke much; and you have no desire to expostulate, to
      but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular attention;
“Eagerness of a listener!” repeated she: “yes; Mr. Rochester has sat by
had been irregular. The reason of its unpopularity was soon made
points!” said Abel, to the yard in general. “Now, I shall twitch like a
inner slope of the rampart, and awnings were stretched overhead.
      subject. At last she recollected that she had been travelling,
“But I’ll not keep you sitting up late to-night,” said she; “it is on
persistent.
his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court.
spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude, commenced a


characteristic. Yes, Mr. Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people. I
      with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so

dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my

disgust? God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own
When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord

She was about to explore another life with Frank. Frank was very kind,

inch or so the taller. Her hair, drawn low over the tops of her ears,
      Netherfield long enough. She attracted him more than he liked—and
revelry surprised him still more. However, young people could not be
fellow men; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and
there existed as yet neither word nor event which could argue it away.
and you too: it darkens.”


hundredfold; for that one creature’s sake I would make peace with the
and locked; but a wicket in one of them was only latched. Through that
would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I
hat, and, followed by his father’s old pointer, Carlo, go out on his

leave behind me everything I possessed except a small parcel; which, in
At the same moment a clapping of hands and a final flourish of the
something these two or three days; but you have been away, and I could
which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion, of
English face comes so near the antique models as did his. He might well


old place on the third shelf, and Gulliver’s Travels and the Arabian
box of black and gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides
would decide my hopes or realise my fears. The servants were gone to a
being, broke the spell at once. Nothing ever rode the Gytrash: it was
knock—forgive me! I see you have not shut your shutters, and the window
reception. The latter was in the act of taking off his hat to wipe his


therefore it inferred we ought not to marry. I said so. “St. John,” I
      myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me,
wishes. Henchard gave Elizabeth-Jane a box of delicately-tinted gloves
Casterbridge on my way to Falmouth, and when I got there, they told me
      Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister’s
control himself now. “Why’s that?”
Then Mrs. Henchard acted somewhat inconsistently; it might have been
had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide
city where she had drawn her breath. He stretched out his hand
feelings had become the inmates of my mind. I had given in allegiance
strikes the fire from you that is in you. You are sick; because the
Henchard’s got a hand in it. Ay, and he’ll go into other things too;
his new lights achieving higher things than his soul in its half-formed

upon his umbrella in approval.
is you who misunderstand, or rather who affect to misunderstand.”
“A good man. Does that mean a respectable well-conducted man of fifty?
Little Chandler felt his cheeks suffused with shame and he stood back
room. He found something mean in the pretty furniture which he had
were out of view.
“Yes … Well, I can’t talk now … I can’t talk now, old sport … I said a
“I wasn’t back from the war.”
Neither of us could help laughing, and we became friends at once.”


Here she sat down and considered the means of subsistence. The little
spiritualizing of the senses its highest realization.
Then he put down his axe and sat beside the Scarecrow, who said, “It
little gate, on the barren thorns. His soul swooned slowly as he heard
During five consecutive days Henchard’s rush basket rode along upon his
      society in town. In town I believe he chiefly lived, but his
Farrington to uphold the national honour. Farrington pulled up his

put it there to keep it dry.”
He proceeded to draw a picture of the alternative—himself living like a
deference be it spoken) the contrast could not be much greater between
“Ah, and you have not?” he said thoughtfully. “I gave her a lift from
      “I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elizabeth; “but I
bid against him for the farmers’ custom as will grind him into the
blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before
farewell.
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom. The sides were so steep that none
begun to snow again. He watched sleepily the flakes, silver and dark,
like getting out of doors, I thought I would come and see first.”
“He knew how to give me brains, and very good brains, too,” said the
click-click of the woman’s knitting-needles. When, therefore, a voice

made frequent use of his beach.

Boils round the naked, melancholy isles
self-denial. Beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege
“That’s no police dog,” said Tom.
impulses. Men and women at such moments lose the freedom of their will.
My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He talked
The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too
Nearly the whole town had gone into the fields. The Casterbridge



lady who is to teach you, and to make you a clever woman some day.” She
      them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet and
of the garage, while George Wilson rocked himself back and forth on

well trained by a great master. I can imitate any kind of a bird or
about some of those little jokers? I believe half of them are in the
active enough to ferret out the means of attaining it.”
like a troubled spirit, “a person below wishes to see you.”
worth of plate in the plate-closet, as is well known. And you see, for

housekeeper was gone, driven away by the fear of infection; her
      behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I
      “but she was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving

more witnessed, Mr. Rochester ascend through the sky-light on to the
“They are practical.”
husband nor any other man will regard me with interest long.”

one image, and I grew nervous as bedtime approached and the hour of the
      “On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your uncle at
should wish to speak to ’ee on a family matter. But, damn it all, I am
He held out the tiny glass, and I half filled it from the water-bottle
      Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed
to-day. I suppose he stands close by in the market-place with the rest
me; how should I live but by my own hands.”

“Now, Dent,” continued Mr. Rochester, “it is your turn.” And as the
duty bound; Adèle wanted to take a seat on my knee, but she was ordered
and sublime gaze, as she lay on her placid deathbed, and whispered her
Lucetta had come to Casterbridge to quicken Henchard’s feelings with


the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an
“The effigy,” she answered hastily. “They must have thrown it into the
facing ye; and that’s the Council men right and left.... Ah, lots of
were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection
      situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner
      “Miss Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to
best that I should live on quiet for a few days like this till
laughter of the others.
friend repair the faults of your poor brother! I am too ardent in execution
another of the Winkies, who was a goldsmith, had made an axe-handle of
      not do himself; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be
through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it to his
eyes, and a Grecian profile.”
it became known that he meant to pay for it all himself.

practically it is a stupid thing—is it not?” she added, on the strength

dominance over his face and gave him the appearance of always leaning
fascinating. The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they
      that her hours of repose should not be broken in on. My aunt
promise rich and fruitful results. His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane



Nor were these my only visions. The raising of ghosts or devils was a
whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is said of you. I am
      He then asked her to walk into the house—but she declared herself

the polish of what you’ve lately learnt to expect for the first time in
“With all his firmness and self-control,” thought I, “he tasks himself
Mr Cunningham.

It might have lasted indefinitely except for the fact that Ella Kaye
      intended.
hay-merchant.” The spectacle renewed his wife’s conviction that, for
early that afternoon, and taken baggage with them.
Street, whence the sounds had proceeded, they were surprised that no
“I don’t wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about other
had started for some colony with that man, and had been drowned on your

accompanied her next evening—a tall, massive-featured, middle-aged, and
      with some discomposure to Sir William,

stamping went on wildly, I distinguished through plank and plaster:—
The coldness soon broke out into open chiding. One grievous failing of
      is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody. At
with five hundred and sixty pearls. This taste enthralled him for
how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder: and it was no
      to-day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family

      “They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though
      how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that
Malone Chandler. He would speak to Gallaher about it.
The girl had to work hard during the day, and often the Witch
curtain was lying. He remembered that the night before he had
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness. I
bells in Casterbridge, and the combined brass, wood, catgut, and
“Oh—no! Where is Elizabeth?”
your school, and that the new mistress was come; and so I put on my
existence and events from which I am now excluded.”
coming to ask if you had quite recovered from your fright, but I found
      over. Within doors there was Lady Catherine, books, and a
personage, whose society I took pleasure in, partly because she was
respectable coat and hat, a new shirt and neck-cloth, were the chief of
The Saturday afternoon slipped on thus desultorily. The market changed
time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of
It was Gatsby’s father, a solemn old man, very helpless and dismayed,
They looked at each other, as they walked away, and sneered. One of
Cruelty! Had he been cruel? It was the girl’s fault, not his. He had

At the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to a

but one way: but you will be furious if I mention it.”
still living and acting under the form of the grizzled traveller who
      “That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A
looking very thoughtful. Diana was a great deal taller than I: she put
cigarette-papers and tobacco. “I think Joe Hynes is a straight man.
      impartiality—deliberated on the probability of each statement—but
Lucetta, he is sure to find out something of the matter, sooner or

wasting in impotent passions. For while I destroyed his hopes, I did
fortnight’s forbearance on his part would be enough to allow me to pull
“I’m all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn’t play. I’m all
“Oh, and do you remember”—she added—“a conversation we had once about
the horizon when he departed. I knew that I ought to hasten my descent

      disapprobation, I could not hesitate.”
Henchard seemed to take the seat offered, and in a moment he resumed:
“Then take it, take it!” said Farfrae. “Ye’ve wished to long enough!”
set about removing the traces of blood from the floor.
big currant buns and sat down to eat them on some metal piping beside
away.”

of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the
to?”
plums from the trees beside the river. Behind them was the dark forest
“Subject to an interview,” said Henchard. “I am sorry for you—very
because they are curious: both are disappointed.”

“Perhaps he thinks it gloomy.”
“After that I lived like a young rajah in all the capitals of
      obeyed, and further apology would be absurd.
something to it. Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture
      reason for his resolving to follow us.
to bite or scratch or struggle in any way. Then they lifted him up and
it, or choked on it, as though it had bothered him before. And with

“Which way?”
love him.”

Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus and Theseus. The
“Yes—and he will be for ever grateful to you.”
done this till Lucetta, animated by the conjunction of her new attire
Five o’clock had hardly struck on the morning of the 19th of January,

his basket on his arm and asked:
      receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion.
Melchester and Shottsford, of any importance along his course, and at
acquaintance with the place and its inmates. Mrs. Fairfax turned out to
mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: “How horrid of Henry Wotton to be

wheels and a tramp of horses ruling the sound as earlier, there was
      Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation. She
Chapter 10
for or marshal: none but Mr. Rochester and I. Mrs. Fairfax stood in the
bless you, sir! I am glad to be so near you again.”
“What did you say?” asked the Scarecrow, who did not know what she was
hanged to ’em.... Any case tomorrow up in Hall?”
dried up and scorched for a long time, swelled to the tone, and filled
family prospects. Her mind seemed wholly taken up with reminiscences of
altered by a family event, which it will surprise you to hear of.

near—what form, the pitch-dark night and my enfeebled vision prevented
criticism, and her sufferings attenuating wrath at her concealments to
in visiting the sick and poor in its different districts.
“At all events you _will_ come back: you will not be induced under any

instinctively when they are driven to utter extremity—looked for aid to
could not have expressed the feeling, that she was sowing aversion and
The apartment was on the top floor—a small living-room, a small
the affection of others to such a wretch as I am! It removes more than
      he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to
fire and deathless worm. Gentlemen, my plan is broken up:—what this
      “I can readily believe,” answered he gravely, “that reports may
      “If I had been able,” said she, “to carry my point in going to
hand stretched out: roused now, and on the alert for discoveries, I at
which framed in the borough there came a chorus of tiny rappings,
“Thanks, Maria.”
good-looking, comfortably circumstanced, and for the first time in her
such as romance, passion, and love.”
letter, adding to it, as by an afterthought, five shillings. Sealing
He rose and came towards me, and I saw his face all kindled, and his
ones whispered, “How shocking!”
quite a story of it. I didn’t dare show my face at Court for a month. I
and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an
and my endeavours for contentment. I have one secret, Elizabeth, a
      have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over me—such spasms
I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill-fated and admirable
had studied in the Irish college in Rome and he had taught me to
      My father’s opinion of me does me the greatest honour, and I
that is having, in our own day, its curious revival. It was to have its

      particular manner from my infancy.”

still. He walked up and down, and then he came and stood behind her
they were afraid of me, and promised to do anything I wished them to.
“To the Emerald City,” said Dorothy, “to see the Great Oz.”
      unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp—its tents stretched
swollen.



arouse himself: the conviction of the reality of all this seized him.
what with green shades for Tom’s eyes at night and making him do the
      Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes, “that a sister’s sense of
“Nothing at all, sir.”
arrangements on the eve we were all vaguely excited. We shook hands,
again set eyes on a Winged Monkey, which we were glad to do, for we
the little girl, although her friends were all quite happy and

“Or give me a heart,” said the Tin Woodman.

tenor who said he thought she had not been well treated. Then she


      reached Mr. Gardiner’s house, where they were to remain a few
man of fine breeding after I talked with him an hour. I said to
I sat down quite disembarrassed. A reception of finished politeness
“The match must have been got up hastily,” said Diana: “they cannot
the middle of the road, looking from the car to the tyre and from the
“I’ve never met so many celebrities,” Daisy exclaimed. “I liked that
way for utensils and operations in connection therewith. Thus Elizabeth

      doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr.

must be happy, too!”


in and sit down a minute?”
strange and dangerous charm. His great wealth was a certain element of

“Is this absolutely where you live, my dearest one?”
of my adversary was extinguished.
a surtout, and looking longer, narrower, and more rigid than ever.
white-aproned servant and all complete, Henchard paid them a visit, and
      but her own uncle? If he had not had a family of his own, I and
quiet, the subject of their lessons could be heard, together with the
writing my thoughts in a diary. You would say, I should have been
“Humph!” said Mr. Rochester, and he took his tea in silence.
that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in
dining-room, a small bedroom, and a bath. The living-room was crowded
      conciliatory manners towards everybody, especially towards those
“They don’t look grave and mysterious, as if they had heard something
penetration; at least, beyond its present reach; and feeling the
light of an oil lamp hanging from the ceiling, and by that of an
to read the first poem in the book:
committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he
“Now, it never crossed my mind that the man was selling me a packet,”

of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced

They found the ladder so heavy they could not pull it up, so the
her own.
The lady had such a cheerful aspect in the drizzle that Elizabeth
said. Yerra, sure the little hop-o’-my-thumb has forgotten all about




during their hour of study; then it was my turn to read prayers; to see


About two o’clock P.M. I entered the village. At the bottom of its one
“I never met your likeness. Jane, you please me, and you master me—you
“And when will you commence the exercise of your function?”

      son-in-law. And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine about this

see nothing there.
“Sit down!—Let me hear what they said about me.”
      many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly. Lady
ice had destroyed the other sledge. I replied that I could not answer
“The owner of Thornfield,” she responded quietly. “Did you not know he
      Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books
She came close to Dorothy and kissed her gently on the forehead. Where
      down the dance. So he enquired who she was, and got introduced,
last month. I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were,

Elizabeth-Jane had seen his movements and heard the words, which
physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable. In
framed a humbler supplication; for change, stimulus: that petition,
pocket, and the trace of a tear glistened on her thin cheek.
eye in a man’s head. It was as much as to say: _I have you properly
      have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a
all. You must have overtired yourself. You had better not come down to

of the city itself, even though she was gone from it, was pervaded
“At Thornfield Hall!” ejaculated the clergyman. “Impossible! I am an
trees, sent up a blue smoke from its few chimneys: it was yet a mile
Elizabeth replied vaguely, for an incident checked her. Behind one of
to lunch afterwards with Lady Branksome. She is a charming woman, and
“Oh, yes, Harry.”
Swaddlers!”_ thinking that we were Protestants because Mahony, who was
“It is his widow, sir.”
herself that the movement was an idle eccentricity, and no more. Yet,
      so, as she could bring no proof of its injustice. She had never
feel at the loss of her? Newson’s affection cooled by years, could not
      “But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure.
no brother of his and there was nearly being a row on the head of it.
and Henchard showed chagrin at once—nobody was more quick to show that
Close by Miss Temple’s bed, and half covered with its white curtains,
      Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth.
“Never,” I thought; and ardently I wished to die. While sobbing out
      cards; who, when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout,

Elizabeth-Jane had never been so much interested in anything in her
“Have you seen a motley crowd making a disturbance?” Grower said
“There’s them that would do that,” some of the guests replied, looking
before. Again I looked at the face; which was no longer turned from
      sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in—and I hope
fetch a surgeon for you now, myself: you’ll be able to be removed by

Then he wrote a note to Lord Henry, telling him that he was going up to
      Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow. Her thoughts were
nature, understood that all men were not called to the religious life,
content. To be privileged to put my arms round what I value—to press my
again?
 Chapter 22
of the animal would elude all pursuit, even if I were so far credited
    Le sein de perles ruisselant,
Mr Crofton sat down on a box and looked fixedly at the other bottle on

torments me.”
with her, and Louisa laughs at his blunders. With whom will Blanche
becoming, even to risk that mute sign of dissent. He had been walking

only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy
“Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I
Carlo loves me,” said she. “_He_ is not stern and distant to his
course. She was simply a girl in a village. But I really loved her. I
thoroughfare gave admittance to a large square called Bull Stake. A
      will be just room at table for him.”
We blessed ourselves and came away. In the little room downstairs we
down to Southampton this afternoon.”
was fragile, his voice was quiet and his manners were refined. He took
as he has money in his pocket to keep him out from his wife and family.
“I wouldn’t think so hard about it,” said Elizabeth, marking the
Jordan smiled.
telling ye the truth when I say my plans are vague.”


The next day was as fine as its predecessor: it was devoted by the
      “And do you really know all this?” cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose
I did not like re-entering Thornfield. To pass its threshold was to
  Chapter 19
“I shall be glad so to do, sir, if you, in your turn, will promise that
      leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in
and he shall be my son. But,” was slowly, distinctly read, “the

John, when I turned to him, was grinning from ear to ear.

the direction of your ship. I had determined, if you were going southwards,


after dinner. You shan’t sit next either of them. You shall sit by me
“There, sir—and there!”’
“The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your power is
Gallaher leaning with his back against the counter and his feet planted
he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse
beck! That beck itself was then a torrent, turbid and curbless: it tore

When Boq saw her silver shoes he said, “You must be a great sorceress.”
I went. I found all the party in the dining-room at supper, as Mr.
and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in
but to utter sounds that were monotonous, and neither resembling the

“They are the people who live in this land of the East where the Wicked


Dorian watched them as they plunged into the alder-clump, brushing the
      them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it with her husband that
confidential sort of thing.”
some means that doubt is removed.”
The soldier with the green whiskers was still on guard before the door,

sage. Miss Templeman deposited herself on the sofa in her former

“You need them all in your trade.”
and music lessons were given by Miss Temple to some of the elder girls.
summits to the north, almost flayed the skin from our faces.

thing. I’ll just tell him my little tale of woe. I’m not such a bad
      they are not handsome! Not that _I_ think Charlotte so _very_
came close to her, and glanced in her face. “I think,” he said,
“Thank you,” replied Dorothy, and then the kind Stork flew into the air
embarrassed. Perhaps I had too rashly over-leaped conventionalities;

the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath. The same lulling sounds


readiness to receive Donald at High-Place Hall when he came on from his
“How’d it happen?”
Street. Though his eyes took note of many elements of the crowd through
of representing the staid nobility of the countryside—East Egg
habit always to shrink from arrogance: received as I had been to-day, I
“She is Mr. Rochester’s ward; he commissioned me to find a governess
care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence. I was spared
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear to ear with
she a second time breathed a sad sigh; for her she wiped a tear from
behind. My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived. When I thought of
“Then you shall come; and you will come, too, Basil, won’t you?”
bring out the penuriousness of the exhibition.
your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those
------------------------------------------------------------------------

blackberries hereabout—a spot whereon the Casterbridge people usually
to. It was crude. It reminded her of a bad rehearsal.
      down the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not

collaring one with each hand, turned to the horse that was down, and
grief that touched me to the heart. But he was silent and presently
Evidences of her care, of her endeavours for improvement, were visible
most subject to in early youth, I at once gave up my former
let the girl know her history. But the flesh is weak; and the true
upstairs four years, and before that time she had tried me indeed: her
“Our host is rather horrid this evening,” answered the duchess,

cropped head. His face was heavy, pale and clean-shaven. His eyes,
      Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this
“That’s all right,” said the Scarecrow. “You are quite welcome to take

      had been walking about the place with some of their new friends,
      “Indeed I do not dare.”
Blanche and Mary were of equal stature,—straight and tall as poplars.


keep the house together and to see that the two young children who had


He extended his hand, which Little Chandler took.
landscape looked like a picture blotted in with ink, another traveller
      “_That_ is a failing indeed!” cried Elizabeth. “Implacable
the room together.

The man, without answering, began to twirl the ends of his moustache.
Sophie came at seven to dress me: she was very long indeed in
No; there she was—just coming out from the inner room, the marks of
anything: but Joe insisted.

Having thus acknowledged what I owe those who have aided and approved

despair almost to the last gasp, that you, Mr. Rivers, forbade me to
I would fain exercise some better faculty than that of fierce speaking;
He looked at me long and hard: I turned my eyes from him, fixed them on
the numerical fogs which had been allowed to grow so thick in
Now the Wicked Witch of the West had but one eye, yet that was as
writhed under his words, yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt.
But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last



you.”
      talking of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it

hastening to live within a very brief span as much as many live during
“Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I

      must be hurt by such a disapprobation. She resolved to give her
But, sure, it’s worse whenever he gets a job; he drinks it all.”
Gentlemen especially are often in request on such occasions; and Mr.
“Well, well! who knows what may happen?” said Mr. Lloyd, as he got up.
his little mistress. Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas
      was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you
    Or stray in the marshes, by false lights beguiled,

Lucetta’s blush at being seen through came and went again before she
      serious in your rejection of me, I shall choose to attribute it
And Mademoiselle—what is your name?”
would forget all the maladies of mediævalism, and return to the
      and her daughter; but from some particulars that he has related
it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect.
      opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of
They clinked glasses and drank the toast.

“Is Mr. Gatsby sick?”
to the other end. By the time that his length would allow him to turn
one can touch and handle. Old brocades, green bronzes, lacquer-work,
      by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by reflection,
circumstances, is the destiny of the pioneer; and the first pioneers of

plainness of a straight-skirted, black, stuff dress, a starched linen
waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I

The sailor, drowned or no, was probably now lost to them; and Susan’s
anything that could contribute to her comfort: she soon settled in her

The nurse now entered, and Bessie followed. I yet lingered half-an-hour
On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of
      “You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr.


place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman
“I think I shall not: I have never been tried yet.”
company that had lately been staying at the house; and to these details
go at once to fight the monster.”
turned; a broad ring flashed on the little finger, and stooping
      either seeing or hearing from Caroline. She accounted for it,
      far; and she listened with increasing astonishment as the
will leave him free for you, if you want him, won’t it?”
coming to you about.”

night was absent from home; nor was he yet returned: business had
“Yes,” she replied with a twinkle in her eye; and the clerk dipped his

      the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.”
stir up any bad blood. We all respect him now that he’s dead and
a room with a fire, where she left me alone.
They walked carefully through the china country. The little animals and
quiet course of Adèle’s studies; only soon after breakfast, I heard
      Heaven! he has _some_ friends, though perhaps not so many as he
“Never mind that. How long have you known her?”

      give. The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence
When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most
      Netherfield family had quitted the country, he had told his story
When Dorothy stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see
him. Your influence would be bad. The world is wide, and has many
opening of her furry slippers and the blood glowed warmly behind her

“What does she want?” asked Mrs. Eshton.



      come and stay with her, with the promise of balls and young men,
“Oh, Jane, you torture me!” he exclaimed. “With that searching and yet
beef-tea any more, nor you, ma’am, sending him his snuff. Ah, poor

refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore
      And so, I suppose, they often talk of having Longbourn when your
“What questions, Mr. Rochester?”
this holiday. But Farfrae had been so cursed quick in his movements as
The explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone through; and then
the door. What might have happened had their situation continued cannot
sacks. He fixed the door open and looked over the sill. There was a
telephoned implied that he had got what he deserved. However, that was
      visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and judgement he stands
scruple about the degree, kind, strength or tenderness of mere personal
      expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would

great part of the night. To the shaft of each hung a little board, on
with him....”
“O Nannie” with faultless modulations, and another or two of the like
meet all trains. And on Mondays eight servants, including an extra


      be done.”
an affirmative to his own thoughts.

mastering facts with painful laboriousness, but never flinching from
The man shook his head. “It is too far for me,” he muttered.

“No, never: we might do what we pleased; ransack her desk and her
      firm. It soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with
My thanks are due in three quarters.
was only candlelight. Sophie, I supposed, had come in. There was a
      nothing to do.”
and what not, there was still the same unruly volcanic stuff beneath


case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to
      But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured her again of his earnest
now, as he stood gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full
partake of my jubilee. The rooks cawed, and blither birds sang; but
could not see into the interior; and both my eyes and spirit seemed
“If you like, miss,” said Sam, “I’ll wait in the hall for you; and if
coming. Still they seemed to have been rather happy then. Her father
we are not by ourselves in the house; we have a gentleman, and dogs,
“Hello! Is this a Freemasons’ meeting?”
them.
“I forgot!” she exclaimed, shaking her beautiful curled head, as if
hint, however, did she drop about sending me to school: still I felt an
“What’s the matter, Nick? Do you object to shaking hands with me?”
As yet my flight, I was sure, was undiscovered. I could go back and be
In pondering the great mystery, I thought of Helen Burns, recalled her


      “Oh! dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain. Lady Lucas
discovered driving his gig out of Casterbridge in that direction,
movements of importance—the rest of the party were occupied with their
certain. You never shall go: you have not consented, have you, Jane?”
the breach? for you have neither relatives nor acquaintances whom you
axe and they all passed through the forest until they came to the road

      Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid,
you; and trouble, and danger, and hideous recollections removed from
if I could haunt such shade for ever; but in threading the flower and
things as marble kisses or ice kisses, or I should say my

found that the Scotchman was located in a room quite close to the small
lovely day.

XXXVII.
“We’ll all come over to your next party, Mr. Gatsby,” she suggested.
could see that the stockade of gnarled trees which framed in
had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to
in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel

      acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy’s treatment of him, she

rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were considerably
a house. A very chill and vault-like air pervaded the stairs and
discovered that such was his intention: I had thought him a man
Must I then lose this admirable being? I have longed for a friend; I have
“I am resolved my husband shall not be a rival, but a foil to me. I
      of course recommended him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded
“Right,” said Henchard. “But just one word. Do you forgive me, Susan?”
what can I do? Where can I go?”
      the whole Pemberley family are endless. From what he said of Miss

very kind! But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?”
the tongue. To express satisfaction the Casterbridge market-man added
      “I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.”

      to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very

eloquence is forcible and touching; nor can I hear him, when he relates

she is about to sever. I watched her come—watched with the strangest

“Yes, to go with me to Moor House. Diana and Mary will be at home in a
so much superadded to the palpable rivalry of their business lives. To
      who sat opposite to them. Her mother only scolded her for being
Journal. Have you got everything you need in the shape of—of tea?”
grief and fatal fury—consequences of my departure—which might now,

I put her cool hand to my hot forehead; “No, Die, not one whit.”
drew out a short black pipe, and lighting it began to smoke. Having
monsieur?”
sorry they told you about the man. It is a hideous subject.”

the same trees come every week?”


thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and

“The Silver Shoes,” said the Good Witch, “have wonderful powers. And

      of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.”
by promises of reward and wealth. Felix rejected his offers with
I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with a man

But the mere thought of such separation fevered his spirit much, and in
“Absolutely real—have pages and everything. I thought they’d be a nice

then to me: “Tell him we couldn’t wait, will you?”
should have shown more consideration. However, as I said before, if he
he thought of Terry Kelly’s pawn-office in Fleet Street. That was the
      were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything
“Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right,” said Hallward slowly.
revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.
friend on account of rumours, and on the other hand I had no intention
night was anyway cold or wet or windy there was sure to be a little

We went; following the superintendent’s guidance, we had to thread some


“Are there ladies at the Leas?”

novelty by which they were characterised); and I had a keen delight in
with a curse. But now this accomplished young man does it all by
at the apartment door.

her the palpitations. When they were growing up he had never gone for
wind, and whenever this happened the red, white, and blue banners in
      summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the
floated in at the window, followed by intermittent cries of
door open and entered.
      and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was

how they never asked for a penny-piece from their guests.

      virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your
      and it was done for the best. On this subject I have nothing more
      “My eldest sister has been in town these three months. Have you
“Look at their church, too,” said Mr Power. “Look at the congregation

“I am attached to it, indeed.”
that this weary frame, absolved by death from further conflict with

This, _par parenthèse_, will be thought cool language by persons who
of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow
“I am too fond of reading books to care to write them, Mr. Erskine. I
      wife, if she survived him. He now wished it more than ever. Had
      “It is amazing to me,” said Bingley, “how young ladies can have
veil. Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by
they are married? I do not think she will manage it; and yet it might
across, the tree fell with a crash into the gulf, carrying the ugly,
      Collins has made you an offer of marriage. Is it true?” Elizabeth
      left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false.”
corruption—and he had stood on those steps, concealing his
one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican
“The Mayor.”
their microscope. There is too much of myself in the thing, Harry—too


trustfulness and enthusiasm from her twisted features. Then she gave a
parish was large, the population scattered, and he found daily business
me thy compassion. By the virtues that I once possessed, I demand this
performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her. As we were
“I don’t know,” replied Dorothy sorrowfully, “but it is my home, and

“Where were you yesterday?”

“He came to us dead broke. He was very glad to pick up some money, old
As he was sitting at breakfast next morning, Basil Hallward was shown
Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board.

of work, he was, as a consequence, out of temper with the world, and
dressed in white, and had a little white roadster, and all day long

He had never been in Corless’s but he knew the value of the name. He
but seldom, and never on a marketday, they saw Donald Farfrae only at
agreeable to them.”
“In his office!” said the man, with a stultified air.
that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and
the long dishevelled hair, the swelled black face, the exaggerated
suits him, the terms which rightly characterise his talent. They say he
with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty

      which she expected. Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and
never, indeed, unless when a chance influx of visitors at Gateshead
The house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more
“Very well. I shall be here at eleven,” said Dorian. “Good night,
In guarantee whereof, I attached myself to my seat by my hands.

      her eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, I could never
“Where is the use of doing me good in any way, beneficent spirit, when,
leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon
“I want a smoke, Jane, or a pinch of snuff, to comfort me under all
may still be misled by passion.

mockery of a soul still more monstrous. My father still desired to
      more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it
to him. He felt as if the load had been lifted from him already.
once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me. I believe

I should have run myself—I’m such a coward; but just as soon as they
“Here is Miss Eyre, sir,” said Mrs. Fairfax, in her quiet way. He
course with its accidental burden. The touch of a cluster of leaves
confess? To give himself up and be put to death? He laughed. He felt
experienced some shame at the recollection of what I had already
the sky. It was like a pedestal lacking its statue. This missing
this calm, this useful existence—after a day passed in honourable
the parlour; ten minutes I stood in agitated hesitation; the vehement
morning.”
family party.”
“Still, the East End is a very important problem,” remarked Sir Thomas

spoke almost as loud as Feeling: and that clamoured wildly. “Oh,
that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it
said, like one whose mind was elsewhere, “I’ll go to Port-Bredy Great
from the Park. Daisy went to the mirror and stood with her back to us,
Mr H. B. Patterson Finlay, on behalf of the railway company, expressed
He duly summoned me to his presence in the evening. I had prepared an

said Jopp. “I was in Jersey several years, and knew you there by
      everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and
for her house. He put on his hat and went. It was between eight and
approved of what the Committee had done. She stood at the door, haggard

“He has driven into the country, sir,” said the parlour-maid; “to some
theatre or buy them chocolate and sweets or something that way. I used
and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose
“Was she killed?”
table to-night. How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! You must

because it was masculine; and, secondly, because it was dark, strong,
      in an amiable light. I am not equal to it. Wickham will soon be
and as good as new.
      that she would, and the argument ended only with the visit.


said Mr Hynes, addressing Mr O’Connor.
in her, and after some cogitation he decided that it would be as well
you are getting better. I eagerly hope that you will confirm this

cat-head, from which a chain dangled for hoisting the sacks.
arms for a long, silent time. It was a cold fall day, with fire in the

imparts nothing. I am sure it would benefit him to talk a little about
“We’ll make a new man of him,” he said. “Good-night, Mrs Kernan.”
      to see Mr. Bingley. But—good Lord! how unlucky! There is not a
only the anticipation of the great change—the new life which was to
Even when the East excited me most, even when I was most keenly aware
the cashier, and finally, striving to hide his blushes as he left the
had been “hag-rid,” but that she had “suffered from indigestion.”
As the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and
’ithout a word of gainsaying; for, hang it, Farfrae, I like thee well!”
“I am tired of strawberry leaves.”
quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him he
a distortion in your judgment, what a perversity in your ideas, is
      remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into
after a moment’s thought decided to lick the paper.
“You should have waited for my leave to descend,” she said. “You still
rippling of the waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and
with his pudding. He had been told that celery was a capital thing for
clapped my hands in sudden joy—my pulse bounded, my veins thrilled.
always—I would have, gladly,” she said. “But how can I when I know you
I started to my feet when I heard the name.
had worried me all the afternoon.
“That’s rather like giving herself airs!” he thought. “And considering
tin. After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after the other;
assure themselves of certain happiness? I feel as if I were walking on
      gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time she is actually

great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the

think I have no feelings, and that I can do without one bit of love or
kitchen-garden and examined the clothes drying on the line; there was a

Diana, and Mary Rivers, for the purchase of three mourning rings. He
      human nature; and had some extracts to admire, and some new

      is no occasion for anything more. Lady Catherine will not think

passed out of the Star of the Sea Church in Sandymount, leaning on the
only from strength. He was unconscious of the silence.


Indeed, what right had Basil to have spoken to him as he had done? Who
“You have learned them from the servants.”

not—no, I was sure of it, and am still—it was not even that strange
have them.”
straightforward person. I thought it was your secret pride.”
      advice. She practises very constantly.”
now there was a reason for it. He knew he had a big future in front of
      the hall-door.

with her, and found we were different. Bessie Leaven had said I was
      that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her
keen throes—I put it back and looked in. My eye sought Helen, and
of the year lived a regular life. He had money enough to settle down
“Well, good-night, Aunt Kate, and thanks for the pleasant evening.”

was going to say, “I suppose I may stay here, till I find another
he has left you all his property, and that you are now rich—merely
strange and beautiful country.
remnants of the shepherd’s breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese,
      Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had
      in what part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till
house and sometimes in the yard.

“That depends on circumstances, sir—on your choice.”

“Good-night, Miss Morkan.”
the steps. The door closed on her and Corley began to walk swiftly
After a considerable pause, I said—“And Miss Oliver? Are her
      “I should like balls infinitely better,” she replied, “if they
Finally, he came back, went over to the picture, and examined it. In
      talked as much as ever. But her mind was so busily engaged, that
      made it clear that he had no intentions at all, and agreeable as
was leading me by the hand round the room, showing me the beautiful
note. “What’s been going on? I want to hear all about it.”
new spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the
childish white teeth.
less thoughtful than his fascinating melodies revealed him to be
“I do.”
young roué of a vicomte—a brainless and vicious youth whom I had
English: his age might be about Mr. Rochester’s,—between thirty and
the drawing of corks. The blinds, moreover, being left unclosed, the

streak of light was, in all likelihood, a gleam from a lantern carried

It was useless. He couldn’t read. He couldn’t do anything. The wailing
      dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and he begged to know
      well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he

Lucetta would not venture to add to her husband’s distress by alluding
It was always a great affair, the Misses Morkan’s annual dance.
      He made no answer.
I shook my head. “What! is there more? But I will not believe it to be
The more you and I converse, the better; for while I cannot blight you,
gentlemen patted the table gently as a signal for silence. The silence
and would not burn. I was pained at this and sat still watching the
had no right to shed. How dared they kill him!”
her finger they were as deeply concerned as if she were dying; when she
the room on rather shaky legs and began to repeat in an undertone the
“God pardon me!” he subjoined ere long; “and man meddle not with me: I
“I don’t feel that, Lord Henry.”
      “How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course
Besides the watchman who called the hours and weather in Casterbridge
      sorry for it. He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too
satirist of “Vanity Fair” admired in high places? I cannot tell; but I
to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much
Here and there I strayed through the orchard, gathered up the apples
were only like keen condiments in a choice dish: their presence was
leaves no hope for doubt. But she will be tried today, and you will
      “He has made me so happy,” said she, one evening, “by telling me
I was confirmed in this idea by the fact of her once or twice coming
     _Within this narrow cell reclines her clay,


man. “I have seen,” he said, “the most beautiful scenes
temptation which would incline you to look back: pursue your present

have a home in this neighbourhood: where do you come from?”
of horses and sheep had been exhibited and sold in the forenoon, but
      can bestow.”
covering and all, just as it is? I don’t want it to get scratched going
this peopled earth.
There was something curious in the way in which Elizabeth, though the
thence and took shape, which was that of a human body, lying stiff and
insect, and his brows gathered.
disowning her when she made her low marriage; and when news came of her
I had a theoretical reverence and homage for beauty, elegance,

“None that I ever heard of,” returned Mrs. Fairfax, smiling.
blackened-green stage of colour that the doomed leaves pass through on
In the road under her eyes stood Henchard. She appeared so bright and
to ask Mr. Farfrae to oblige them with one. The messenger, who was a
reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage!
the haymakers were at work all along the road; and the sky, though far
remember that all the people in this world haven’t had the advantages
school, thus improved, became in time a truly useful and noble
Did you not, my lady-mother?”


She promised mechanically, in her agitation; and the same evening at



A murmur in the room attracted his attention. Mr Browne was advancing
“Who is Mr. Kirwin? Why am I to give an account of myself? Is not

all the other suburbs of Dublin mean, modern and pretentious. He lived
not taken one peep.”
Allen and, farther westward, softly falling into the dark mutinous
of wheels, there were added to this steady light a fantastic series of
interesting phenomenon is their dissimilarity in every particular
effect of solemnising my mind and causing me to forget the passing
      “You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so
Henchard sent the two men staggering in contrary directions by
it away and put it on her own skinny foot.
      to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his

who out-Farfraed Farfrae in saltatory intenseness. This was strange,

inspector, too, was shared by those who knew how to combine reason with
      notice, and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much

addressed him; if he had put off my offer of assistance gaily and with

“I do my best; and have done it, and will do it,” was the answer: he
After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round and

the direction of Budmouth. Sometimes it occurred to him that when she
herself of it, and cried into her handkerchief, as if the very
well-informed young women as could be found in the ranks of the British
      highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he

frenzy—sorrow, sullenness. I had long had the impression that since I

         He raised to glory from the mire;
remainder was no less interested in the labour of getting it home.
must come and sit to me yourself again. I can’t get on without you.”

eyes don’t open no more, bury the pennies, good souls and don’t ye go
second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose. I wonder what other
instrument of evil to what you wholly love.
      inexpressibly painful to me. Your reproof, so well applied, I
“I’m very sorry,” returned Dorothy. “Please forgive us.”
      to it. In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and
      attention or pleasure. Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty,
day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and
night in her flowered dress—and as drunk as a monkey. She had a bottle
sense of life in you yet, rising out of that adhesion at the faithful,
“All day yesterday I was very busy, and very happy in my ceaseless
      At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on,
      solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonth’s abode in the family

your health too sound for frenzy.”
years—and you didn’t know.”
      But do you think she would be prevailed upon to go back with us?
“What becomes of your simile about the orchid?”
gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy. Once the
But they didn’t. And we all took the less explicable step of engaging
draper. She waited in the crowd without.

large schoolroom. The punishment seemed to me in a high degree
      the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with
basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four miles from the shore.
sticking out, shod in silver shoes with pointed toes.
in huge tin cans. Maria superintended the distribution of the barmbrack
But evidently he was not addressing me, for he dropped my hand and
saw hundreds of the armless Hammer-Heads upon the hillside, one behind



      They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it
Geneva. On her return, at about nine o’clock, she met a man who asked
      you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your
setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.


us—and impressing by sound on his ear what light could no longer stamp
      and keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a
and gazes on it wildly! He thus grasps and cries, and gazes, because he
incident enough.
inexperience I believed they didn’t—drift coolly out of nowhere and


torn green jersey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay
Farfrae’s erection in the West Walk, rick-cloths of different sizes and

“Why, bless the woman!—I packed up every scrap of your handwriting to
timely consciousness of the ultimate vanity of human architecture, no
drawing-room, Mary was gardening—it was a very fine May day, clear,
night the ice broke and freed our ship. We, however, lay to until the
Jordan and I, were all Westerners, and perhaps we possessed some
her connection with yourself, be buried in oblivion: you are bound to
is stayed—not by sound, not by sight, but once more by a warning
and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a

      hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’

pair came in. My eye was quickly at the aperture. Céline’s chamber-maid
The Witch of the North seemed to think for a time, with her head bowed
and soon guessed the nature of the proceedings; for being a native of
if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got out

because she was a golf champion, and everyone knew her name. Then it
night that Rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always
right, noble, Christian: yet it breaks my heart!” And the tears gushed

      everywhere discussed; that he had then no reserves, no scruples
once too often, mind!”
      their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good

or himself with such a fat, weak, puffy, useless thing, you cry out
      “My object _then_,” replied Darcy, “was to show you, by every
had no longer a ray of recognition for me.—But why do I follow that
ye shall be judged! Off with you now. I must shut up my prize.”
let me reveal my tale, and you will dash the cup from your lips!”
      attention in the whole course of his life.
apartment; it contained a good fire, and looked cheerful. Miss Temple
lying hitherto a formless lump of links was drawn out straight,—every
      thought him very sly;—he hardly ever mentioned your name. But
shoulder, “you have come too late. Yesterday, when I heard that Sibyl

      their aunt. It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam
plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when
return to stagnation; to cross the silent hall, to ascend the darksome
room over this.”
broken, and continuous rain set in for some days, no damp seemed cast

    Though both of shelter and kindred despoiled;
of as ancient a family as could be found. Marsh End had belonged to the
“She is at the lodge, aunt.”
      house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her
      their mother’s fortune, though ample for her situation in life,

the venerable one visible in the street. The old-fashioned fronts of
      first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
      an impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever
“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only
through Debrett carefully to-night and draw out a list of all the
      Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind!
intelligence soon in your own handwriting.
her own chance of living there, all the rest of the day. In the

their laugh. I saw Mr. Rochester smile:—his stern features softened;
“But do you know who that lady is you talk about in such a fashion? Do


“Fire rises out of the lunar mountains: when she is cold, I’ll carry
letter: “I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety
      passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and

awkwardness. “But I wonder if she would care to?”
who stood in the field with the Mayor.
three this; and the volk nowhere to go—no, not so much as a thatched
Saturday Evening Post—the words, murmurous and uninflected, running

Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not
laughed. I hear them now, and they make me shudder. What about your

terms.”
      Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his father’s
      ill-tempered man.” Wickham only shook his head.
      having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent,
invincible burden.
Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the
His eye fell on the yellow book that Lord Henry had sent him. What was
his voice was as remote from Jordan and me as the foreign clamour on
“Now, Mary Jane,” said Aunt Kate, “don’t annoy Mr D’Arcy. I won’t have

gospel oath in bygone times, and has bode by it ever since. So they

“Madam, I support you on this point, as on every other.”
and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall
“Quite right,” said Mr Power.
stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You
“And well do I—for I was getting up husband-high at that time—one-half
      Darcy’s having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked him,
beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of
scholars may substitute gratification for disgust.
      “Yes,” replied Mr. Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A
poor thing, she has no other home.”
Campanini, the great Trebelli, Giuglini, Ravelli, Aramburo. Those were
together. Mr Duffy, however, had a distaste for underhand ways and,
things in my life. I am not going to do any more. I began my good
“You shall walk up the pyramids of Egypt!” he growled. “At your peril
me. I did not wonder, when, without looking at me, he took a seat at
“And Daisy ought to have something in her life,” murmured Jordan to
Elizabeth.
“I never have dined with you, sir: and I see no reason why I should
“I don’t believe that, Harry, and I don’t believe you do either.

mortal discretion to fathom her craft.”
savourless for the want of it. Feeling without judgment is a washy
Adriatic Sea!”

“Dead!” he said, in a low voice. “Then what’s the use of my money to
nothing—only the picture of Dan Cody, a token of forgotten violence,
“Do let me speak,” I said; “let me have one moment to draw breath and
hollow and dismal that I want some living thing there.”
intimate. I won’t go into particulars of what our relations were. It is
and wringing her hands. Francis was as pale as death.

The night—its silence—its rest, was rent in twain by a savage, a sharp,
and there was a pink and golden billow of foamy clouds above the sea.
so strong o’ mice when made into bread that people could fairly tell


“How gorgeous! Let’s go back, Tom. Tomorrow!” Then she added
which claim, and rightly claim, our strenuous endeavours.

      “Oh! yes,” said Elizabeth drily; “Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to
she had yet heard anything decided: her answer was always in the
      what it is about.”


The fact was, that no sooner had the sickles begun to play than the


by mischance) when advancing their own.
your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few

friendship. You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for
thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca,
corner. I’ll be the man smoking two cigarettes.”
“I can.”
its requirements, and pains, and responsibilities. The burden must be
beer-barrel. Mercutio was almost as bad. He was played by the


“And old Madam Reed, or the Misses, her daughters, will be solicited by
black hair was parted in the middle and brushed in a long curve behind

sharply, “Hitherto I have often omitted to fasten the bolt: I did not

I hope you Casterbridge folk will not forget me if I go.”
“Twenty after,” he said.
fine, calm day, though very cold; I was tired of sitting still in the
logical, natural reason too. However, when I had brushed my hair very
      “But I must write no more. The children have been wanting me this
question.”
Robert here entered, and Bessie laid her sleeping child in the cradle
hay-barn where Henchard and his daughter were working, and to go on to
“No.”
furred cloak? You can’t travel a mile without that, I know, in this
with that mysterious excitement in it which comes at the two changes
the cloud, and I descended upon the glacier. The surface is very
      and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry
and said, also sadly:

“While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters as
      deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed himself so as to
      observing how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the
the science not to derange their mechanism. He also gave me the list of

“Have you seen Paris?”

sparkling Bohemian glass, ruby red; and between the windows large
      “I think she will. She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet’s
mental torment in bodily exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt,
returned, “I regard you as a brother—you, me as a sister: so let us

aperture was so screened and narrow, that curtain or shutter had been
Moreover, before I definitively resolve on quitting England, I will

me he was at Oggsford I knew I could use him good. I got him to join
the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I
drip of the banjoes on the lawn.
I, in my turn, scrutinised the paper; but saw nothing on it save a few
with her. She listened to all.
      pray, what is the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless
      neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a
      other colour. As for their mother, Mr. Collins’s letter had done

      “Bingley.”
myself, ‘Never a one of the prizes of life will I come by unless I
been an excitement for her to have a fellow and then she had begun to
did of him. But in an impulsive moment, purely out of reparation, he
Now that Henchard’s whole career was pictured distinctly to his


within the door, permitted Elizabeth to be a spectator of all that went
at my heart’s core.
“I fear so,” she said, laughing, as she stood up. “A thousand pardons,
claim to her was exposed.
      sister_ make such an exhibition.”
swung her umbrella more quickly and executed half turns on her heels.

half-caste, in a ragged turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous
at the front door; it was opened by a maid-servant; I alighted and went
darkened auditorium. In presence of this scene after the other there
labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or
from between two bushes into the path. I must have felt pretty weird
pump it up. Then he gave instructions that the open car wasn’t to be
indignities of his life enraged him.... Could he ask the cashier
the blowing roses; on hayfield and cornfield lay a frozen shroud: lanes
next—or to be a village-schoolmistress, free and honest, in a breezy

also. I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped
      “Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich,
would teach him not to be talking to girls. And if a boy had a girl for
brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen
My ostensible errand on this occasion was to get measured for a pair of

“Because—he was a witness!”

sinking; I could not yet beg; and again I crawled away.


and will marry, probably, some one who will make her far happier than I
a fine tart under Waterhouse’s clock and said good-night, you know. So
highest distinction. A few months before my arrival they had lived in

something.”
“Which is my bottle?” he asked.
Hallward, tore the knife out of his hand, and flung it to the end of


You have a curious influence over me. If I ever did a crime, I would
unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become
the same studies. Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I
spoke slowly and with effort. They passed words to each other as
sing all the night. O, I’ll get him to sing a song before he goes.”

quavering voice. She sang _I Dreamt that I Dwelt_, and when she came to

he had been standing with Farfrae when Elizabeth-Jane had seen him lift
detected in another feelings and views in which it has no power to
         Who would have wrought her destiny.

places you’ve seen!”
removed; Adèle and I sat down on the top step of the stairs to listen.
he imagined he saw the form of a young man standing under a dripping
      Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and
brought him a plate of grocer’s hot peas, seasoned with pepper and
cares.
were a painter.
any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray? You must come. I can’t afford
each other dead—and—Newson became her husband.”

      “No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which he
      sport with it in whatever manner he thought best, but her
one.”


He looked anxiously at the farmer who was seeking him and who just then
her last bloody glance over a world quivering with the ferment of
The next Saturday Henchard bought grain to such an enormous extent that
were yours!”
disturb the silence, but leaned over the rail at the foot of the bed.

“I’ll run back,” said Elizabeth-Jane. “I don’t mind it at all, as I am
fortune, beauty, nor connections. I saw plainly how you would look; and
priest’s figure now stood upright in the pulpit, two-thirds of its

“Mike,” she said, “I’ve lived with thee a couple of years, and had
stairs, peering down over the banisters and calling down to Lily to ask
      the subject.
diary; two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden; and one to the
all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby, what foul dust
that did not involve an explanation of the circumstances under which he
“Yeah.” He flipped his sleeves up under his coat. “Yeah, Gatsby’s very
agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only imagined the
      affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
“At Aunt Agatha’s. I have asked myself and Mr. Gray. He is her latest
“Very romantic,” he said, and then miserably to me: “If it’s light
Suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane. Over
by Oscar Wilde
tail, starred with myriads of golden eyes. He looked down and saw the
got now? What gentleman would associate with him?”
      Mrs. Reynolds respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this
“Twenty years ago, a poor curate—never mind his name at this
      and, oh! how ardently did she long to know whether any of his
marrying again, that after what had happened between us it was my duty
towards Geneva.

      It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even



“I, Michael Henchard, on this morning of the sixteenth of September, do
my secret,” I replied concisely.


resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find
“Left no address?”
down, fairly committed to black and white.”
letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to
      Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his

mind.
actors: for, after all, Mr. Rochester and—because closely connected
I felt a burning glow mount to my face; for bitter and agitating
echoed in the silent street. The career of our play brought us through
“Have I furnished it nicely?”
shrivelled red apple, and her hair, braided in the same old-fashioned
      take immediate advantage of.’
assertions became more violently affected moment by moment, and as she

have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you
When we meet—we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go
      passed some years of her life, and where they were now to spend a


no mystery in any of them. They ride in the park in the morning and
“Oh, don’t refer him to me, mama! I have just one word to say of the
misgiving.
new decade.
getting ready to leave, and when I sent down word that we weren’t in

in her convent. Her brother and two other boys were fighting for their

Wilson’s body. “He says he knows the car that did it … It was a yellow
      Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the
“Well, Jane Eyre, and are you a good child?”
      especially if Lady Catherine should be so indulgent as to let him
was of a more respectable station in the world then than I am now,
much of myself!”
scientific principles as the best specimen he could find of a modern

      contempt of the world.”
a row while Dorothy said:

surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at meeting
the evening.”
afraid?”
if you think it better.”
chosen, was seen enveloped in a white sheet: before him, on a table,
      the arrival of Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might

      the lady first spoke. She wished him to know that she had been
a first-rate _artiste_. He had appeared in grand opera. One night, when
all. I am afraid I walked too far this morning. I didn’t hear what
capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure, I
_lilas blanc_ passes suddenly across me, and I have to live the
clothes upon the floor. Each night he added to the pattern of his
But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be

remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at
are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent

causing husband and wife to despise him for his inconsistency was a
enlightened and indignant, to claim his child. But no figure appeared.
darkened and sometimes disclosed the Môle, a peaked mountain to the

to love secrecy. It seems to be the one thing that can make modern life
he was turning the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the portrait
covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches
He could not finish the sentence.
now: till—”
second school for girls. I have hired a building for the purpose, with
all that intervened between me and the gulf. In the eyes of the world,
faithfully as I could. It was truly hard work at first. Some time

Farfrae, or any of the rest of the paltry crew! You shall see.”
lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare’s music
added significantly.

      Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse with Rosings. A
in her innocence; I knew it. Could the dæmon who had (I did not for a

storm had whirled over June; ice glazed the ripe apples, drifts crushed
get out and walk eastward toward the park through the soft twilight,
      proficient. And so would Anne, if her health had allowed her to
hope that the secretaries would approach her. But Miss Healy had kindly
terrified murmurs sounded in every room; door after door unclosed; one
flesh-barometer, with feelers always directed to the sky and wind
      Longbourn House. Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all
“It’s all right, Mr Shelley,” said the man, pointing with his finger to
Lest I should betray my agitation I delayed a few moments pretending to


stopped and shifted it a little, and the chauffeur asked him if he
“All right.”
glad to accept her hospitality; and I submitted to be relieved of my

      “Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself! She can
      unreasonable as her accent was peevish.
      carriages, and servants. She was busily searching through the
be known. All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew
Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly
      such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in
“A little boy.”
pulled all of the straw out of his clothes and head. They made his hat
      provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the
malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine. When I run over the
“You said a bad driver was only safe until she met another bad driver?
of the game, and out of the group, could observe all from afar, like
“I was just telling my mother,” he said, “I never heard you sing so

of traction for Dan Cupid’s magnet; for young men were young men at
Mrs. Reed’s hands still lay on her work inactive: her eye of ice
Wood, close your book and take off your surplice; John Green (to the

the swelling back of his chair, and receiving the light of the fire on
      Charlotte’s kindness extended farther than Elizabeth had any

face since the subject of his corn-dealings had been broached, changed

practical hand at anything. In sealing up the sheet, which was folded
Dorian Gray listened, open-eyed and wondering. The spray of lilac fell
      now been spent there; but on the third her repining was over, and
“You ask rather too many questions. I have given you answers enough for

heart, you know, so I am careful to help all those who may need a
      principally be owing.
“It was … simply amazing,” she repeated abstractedly. “But I swore I
speaking likeness: I was absorbed and content.

We found dinner ready, and waiting for us in Mrs. Fairfax’s room.
I did run; I brought the candle which still remained in the gallery. He
influence, the result of his own indiscretion, which he cannot shake
      “It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but
cicatrised visage.”
turn back. As he came near Corless’s his former agitation began to
      is perhaps probable; but his regard did not appear to me enough
      let them wait for that, but tell Lydia she shall have as much
      were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently
“And I shall see it again,” he said aloud, “in dreams when I sleep by
face.”
a little detachment which left the city shortly after noon on Sunday
“Well,” answered Oz, “if it were inside of you, it would be courage.


“That will be easy,” replied the man, “for when she knows you are in
“She had already married another—maybe?”
Gabriel tried to cover his agitation by taking part in the dance with
was happy or not with her, I cannot say, never having been told; but at
“Patron!” said Donald’s wife with quick indignation.
genuine affection and admiration. The two girls, on whom, kneeling down


      which she could not have otherwise failed of, as I am informed by
hardships into a death which I still dread, for my task is unfulfilled.

exterior likely to second that desire brings anything but
“But where were my friends and relations? No father had watched my
“The thing to do is to forget about the heat,” said Tom impatiently.

but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders. The
      Mrs. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by
      by the impression. It will pass away soon enough.”
pleased me better than the rainbow radiance of the titled dame.

the sunset, where four candles flickered on the table in the
housewife agreed to prepare him some breakfast for a trifling payment,
On one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a
more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by
“I’ll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past; till then I dare

the fact that we did not love each other as man and wife should: and
      will not visit them.”
gateway. A smear of decisive lead-coloured paint had been laid on to

      Bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss





follow me to Mr. Kirwin’s to give an account of yourself.”


knoll between the house and gates.
“What do you mean?”
passion and youth; to convey one’s temperament into another as though

      “You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?”
advertisements for _The Irish Times_ and for _The Freeman’s Journal_, a
you down in my chair on the hearthstone, if you will.”
“No, indeed: but I have long wanted to see you, and when I heard that
“They will indeed. It was not so at all. Donald’s genius would have
“‘Frankenstein! you belong then to my enemy—to him towards whom I have
who glanced back at Dorian with a look of shy wonder in his rough

been injured in the fall. The injuries were not sufficient to have
less popular now than he had been when nearly two years before, they
the landlord’s neglect, as from the lack of a painter in Casterbridge

with unremitting ardour. My cheek had grown pale with study, and my
endeavour to regulate my mind.
      “Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it.”
“But haven’t you found him?” said the doctor.
the light of an ordinary housekeeper: my employer is always civil, and
concentrate himself upon the moments of a life that is itself but a


enough till new love had intervened and usurped that rule. In feeling
instilled prejudice: I wanted to have you safe before hazarding
That eye of hers, that voice stirred every antipathy I had. Shaking
Susan, you agree?”
it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once.”

gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs
at them, forgotten them. They had not influenced his nature. Then had

“I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry,” said Basil
(mentally, be it understood; I did not talk aloud), “I know there is,
prize-money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young


more than others, insatiable. I honour endurance, perseverance,
Wherever the doors of these places were open, a closely packed throng
made use of those silent hours he might have found reason to reserve
Henchard said nothing; but going back he closed the stair hatchway, and
stout, but was not strong with it; and the loss of money and fear of

to see you here, Elizabeth-Jane—very glad. We must have a long talk
and lighted cigarettes made unintelligible circles inside. Imagining
“Yes, sir.”


instant, with a close glance at him. Then dropping her eyes again, and

saw me, and once attempted chastisement; but as I instantly turned
“Very well, she shall have the child, and the bargain’s complete,” said

live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of

beat rapidly. I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same
to you a noble career; as my wife only can you enter upon it. Refuse to
his extravagance; so he went back again, and the next news was that he
      somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet
“A well-executed picture,” he said; “very soft, clear colouring; very

days at the Yellow Castle, where they found everything they needed to
“What was that, Harry?”
      grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table:
disinterested, faithful, constant, and courageous; very gentle, and
words.
settled down into Mrs. Wilson’s lap, where she fondled the
      affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct
      They attacked him in various ways; with barefaced questions,

Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. “That is a rather commonplace
Henchard,” said Alderman Tubber, applying his thumb to the corn-factor
In exploring her new domain during the first week of residence, gazing


looking quickly round to assure herself that nobody was near.

diligence thrown away! As a young man he had sown his wild oats, of
rather that she had taken with her the serene atmosphere I had been
image of himself, came over him. It had altered already, and would
avoided looking that way as much as possible, but it was hardly in
the Tivoli. Farrington’s eyes wandered at every moment in the direction
      which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could

head, and a wreath of roses round her brow; by her side walked Mr.
      Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for

sister of this resolute personage, who is now, with his quivering limbs



perfectly. He answered emphatically but calmly—
ambition to quit her safe and secluded maiden courses for the
not after he is dead,” he suggested. “After that my own rule is to let

was obviously and tactlessly for a service to be rendered, I had no

which decomposed apathetically in the saucer of milk all
to replace the one lost: is not the occupation he now offers me truly
“Well, you see, I’m like the famous Mrs Cassidy, who is reported to
      a few words to her sister, ran out of the room.
“I am willing to amuse you, if I can, sir—quite willing; but I cannot
      “Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and
A person resembling a poor clergyman or a poor actor appeared in the
      punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time. When they
“I almost made a mistake, too,” she declared vigorously. “I almost

inwardly swore I would act; but further might try me beyond my
Scarecrow, but he refused.
Dorian Gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the
you? Little nervous subject! Forget visionary woe, and think only of
“He’ll be top-sawyer soon of you two, and carry all afore him,” added
“And you found he was an Oxford man,” said Jordan helpfully.

and get a priest to come over and he could talk to you, see?”
little Keogh used to keep _nix_ and call out when he saw her father
captivating, and in its very pride, irresistible.
to catch his train.”
brother, and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion.
“John of Tuam,” repeated Mr Cunningham, “was the man.”
“Congratulate me. I am going to Oz to get my brains at last. When I
      and Miss Bennet the principal object. He was then, he said, on
subject; but not guessing the real cause, he attributed my feelings to


“About that little seedsman’s shop,” he said, “the shop overlooking the
“I am never hungry,” he said, “and it is a lucky thing I am not, for my
you full of strange contrasts. Your garb and manner were restricted by
“O, Joe,” said Mr O’Connor suddenly. “Give us that thing you wrote—do
beloved sister, the sickening failing of your heart-felt expectations is,
But the emotional conviction that he was in Somebody’s hand began to

if you are substance or shadow, you elf!—but I’d as soon offer to take

and green pop corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green
      and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings
Mr Hynes hesitated a little longer. Then amid the silence he took off
thirty thousand pounds: that sufficed. When I left college, I was sent
      must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, “There
Mr M’Coy had been at one time a tenor of some reputation. His wife, who
conversation with him.”
“Pray don’t, Lady Ruxton,” said Lord Henry. “Moderation is a fatal
obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed.
“You certainly shall not go till you have told me all,” I said.
      his friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on
to his behaviour to her. Everything was made to yield to her wishes

them. How fast I walked! How I ran sometimes! How I looked forward to
      have, and that the Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as
      no more, and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did
      Jane was firm where she felt herself to be right.

“She says, sir, that she’ll have no gentlemen; they need not trouble
assuming the post of governess in her house.
good husband: that it would be a trying thing to be his wife. I
inflection, “there are always in gatherings such as this sadder
no longer; I was obliged to yield, and I was shaken from head to foot
Then I thought, as the country was so green and beautiful, I would call
      moved again towards the gate. He had by that time reached it
he exhibited an agitation different in kind no less than in intensity
I for analysis; she liked to inform, I to question; so we got on
      generations.”
am ready, as soon as custom will permit, to give you my name in return
“Jane, I never meant to wound you thus. If the man who had but one
eating or drinking more, and letting myself die.
hide his head for ever.


looking him flush in the eye. Then she wet her lips, and without
gates, the road, the tranquil hills, all reposing in the autumn day’s

his mind, for he was a delicate and abstinent person. The adventure of
she was left to find him as she could. It was a place flanked by
murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride.
when another person came in. Some heavy clouds, swept from the sky by a
join in the same enterprise.”
preceding four gin rickeys that clicked full of ice.
old English hangings crusted with thick work, portraying effigies of

Hannah, the servant, was my most frequent visitor. Her coming disturbed
its colour—he told the first policeman that it was light green. The


sure you won’t be jealous?”
frequently figured in Bessie’s fireside chronicles. At last the guard
clean in my own sight—and to the last I repudiated the contamination of

      Mr. Wickham’s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife’s.
      was agreed to. Mrs. Bennet was not in the habit of walking; Mary
      the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed,
fervently longed to do what was right; and only that. “Show me, show me

“You said your name was Jane Elliott?” he observed.
names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated. You are well


summer day in London.
story which he knew to be true. Little Chandler was astonished.
“You impertinent ruffian! You impertinent ruffian! I’ll make short work

      out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a
      amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea

colour; and my eyes seemed as if they had beheld the fount of fruition,
and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the
account of the awfully sudden death of Martha G——, a naughty child

So I turned at the door: I saw a robed and veiled figure, so unlike my
      will not have him.”
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard and

parcel, and other papers, with apologies for not having returned them.
progressed with unabated spirit, and Henchard walked and waited till

It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father,
how I would tease you about your aristocratic tastes, and your efforts
kind; and then to learn to speak like them, to adopt their manners, to
impart them to no living being. Place her in safety and comfort:
fatal portrait to which all his misery had been due had gone out of his

the most magical of mirrors. As it had revealed to him his own body, so

frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I am the same
knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public
shall judge.
me a question of that kind. Well, now, I have something to tell you.”
to the purple moors behind and around their dwelling—to the hollow vale
“This welcome I am going to give our Royal visitor.”
not know the sensations of sympathy and pity; tenderness and truth were
Donald had wished to get to his lodgings; but he already saw that his

forbidden Adèle to talk to me about her presents, and she is bursting
“Your real name you will not give?”


silvery plumage extended and waved below me.
come farther. But the little old woman walked up to Dorothy, made a low
me carry you back to Kansas, and stand you on Aunt Em’s mantel? I could
      acquaintance. Of his former way of life nothing had been known in
then ascended the steps.
thirty and forty; a set, square-made figure, red-haired, and with a
the journey to the City of Emeralds.

      Elizabeth was chiefly struck by his extraordinary deference for
      all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt
      immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove
      “With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having
“First place, we didn’t have any president—”
      “These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth. “But the wife

 Chapter 16
“Did you start him in business?” I inquired.
corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him.”
of my nervous symptoms. Henry saw this, and had removed all my

tracking and scourging me, on the morning I fled from Thornfield: ere I
with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to
Hallward, strolling towards the door that led into the garden. “I
horribly black and wet, then Mr. Gatz and the minister and me in the
wait calmly and see what the future would bring. At last she crawled


particularly agreeable to me. The shutting of the gates regularly at
I departed, obeying his directions.
In his blue gardens men and girls came and went like moths among the

She heaved a deep sigh. It was a sigh of relief. The terrible moment,
went away had reconciled her stepfather to her visiting him.

      singular.”
      could not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming
discarded attire.
its purple stars. But we never get back our youth. The pulse of joy

mountain’s weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
not only a journeyman, unable to appear as he formerly had appeared,
made you mournful. I permitted myself the delight of being kind to you;

“Now, help yourself, Mr Holohan!”
“Nobody, as far as I am concerned,” said Elizabeth firmly.
you had some years before been living at Casterbridge. Back came I
earth all the dust came from. Perhaps she would never see again those
the cornfields at the top of the town, who desired to get to the meads
before dusk, that they reached the summit of a hill within a mile of

public-house. The fog had begun to chill him and he wondered could he
“I want you to fly with me to Kansas,” said Dorothy.
But a quarter of an hour later the man, who had gone on lacing his
“A stranger!—no; who can it be? I expected no one; is he gone?”
beautiful green fields before them.
as a transient stimulus, and I begged her to fetch Gulliver’s Travels
keen eyes the faded blue dress which was stretched upon a meagre body.
door with a trembling hand. There was a candle burning just outside,
indignant. You glowed in the cool moonlight last night, when you

relative, and had been conducting a rummaging scrutiny of the room
to look. It was his habit to walk swiftly in the street even by day and
could support one more single man. All my aunts and uncles talked it
      and I have but one mind and one way of thinking. There is in
minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and I was left
      sitting. Her ladyship, with great condescension, arose to receive
wainscoting of olive-stained oak, its cream-coloured frieze and ceiling
and revealed to him that he could undeniably marry if he chose. Then
Witch ruled.”

anything happens to our good duchess, we shall all look on you as being

“Oh! I daresay she is crying because she could not go out with Missis
      that the serenity of your sister’s countenance and air was such

unsettled—my departure, continually procrastinated. Only this morning,
squatted like mice upon the thresholds. Little Chandler gave them no
They stood side by side examining it. I was going to ask to see the
by which Kathleen was to receive eight guineas for her services as
the requisite article, and found that she had no sunshade to go with
in my memory? No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and
She had not been gone ten minutes when one of Lucetta’s servants was
of a brooding nature. Zealous in his ministerial labours, blameless in


have been happy, for none of the Reeds were there, they were all gone
congenial to your own temper.”
      Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom

disappointment. But I journey towards England, and I may there find
      though she could not hear a word of it, she felt as if hearing it
      neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful
think.”
substituted for the world-redeeming creed of Christ. There is—I repeat
debasement and sin will fall from us with this cumbrous frame of flesh,

“Madness!” she exclaimed. “You would not live three months there, I am
      “I believe she did—and I am sure she could not have bestowed her

spectacles night and day. They are all locked on, for Oz so ordered it
Habitually obedient to John, I came up to his chair: he spent some
“Maybe I’ll get into my market-mind when I’ve been out a few minutes,”
      perfectly convinced that Mr. Wickham has deserved much less
      still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt
a trite old evening song that might doubtless have been heard on the
“There’s no tumblers,” said the old man.
      had ever excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was
“You know, old sport, I’ve never used that pool all summer?”
      talked of. The sight of Miss Lucas was odious to her. As her
      faint blush; but in general Charlotte wisely did not hear. After



himself in the dark in his confession-box, wide-awake and laughing-like
“They’ll talk any nonsense,” Henchard replied with covered gloom.
      what she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorised to
tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta
A considerable interval elapsed before it again rose. Its second rising
led her recruits quickly from the room. They had hardly gone when Aunt


chance.”
In the midst of the tumult, and while my eyes and ears were fully
      without forming at it any useful acquaintance. The subjection in

The sight of the girl made her mother sad—not vaguely but by logical
      conversation was carried on. Miss Darcy looked as if she wished

and in flesh—those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them
school: Miss Reed is the head and shoulders taller than you are; and
Restoration Salons, I felt that there were guests concealed behind
down towards Henchard. A meeting promised to be awkward, and he
close! Oh, Frankenstein! Generous and self-devoted being! What does it
to tea.”

After driving along the highway for a few miles they made further
dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its
The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good
body—how much that is! We in our madness have separated the two, and
care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance. How pleased you would
      During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet’s consent
what would, she had secured him. Half-an-hour after her arrival he

yours, and you shall have them to wear.” She reached down and picked up
incapable now of deriving from any occurrence a hope of aid. A form was
entering noiselessly she took off her pretty dress and arrayed herself
      perhaps, his sister does as well for the present, and, as she is

“No,” continued Aunt Kate, “she wouldn’t be said or led by anyone,
“Henchard!” said Elizabeth-Jane, surprised, but by no means suspecting
XLI.

“Lovely voice, lovely voice!” said Aunt Kate.
a pretty woman in a brown riding-habit, who had been there previously.
these papers can come into your possession.
      connection. He left Netherfield for London, on the day following,
      from her rank and fortune, part from her authoritative manner,
at times a sound of low fugitive laughter made him tremble like a leaf.


more than the passions, and gave to the intellect a quickened sense of
of the family, the members of Julia’s choir, any of Kate’s pupils that
ground floor that, in his new-born feeling for luxury, he had just had

yours, Mr. Rochester.’”

words on her lips were “anything about me?”—but she did not utter them.
      their appearance before. One came from her books, and the other
philandering with womankind has neither been my vice nor my virtue. She
being aware of his departure. Elizabeth-Jane accompanied him as far as

the farmer was sitting, eating his supper of bread and cheese. I
      miserable summer else we shall have!”
gallery any longer.”
      endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance.”
other way.”
“I am afraid so,” rejoined Lord Henry. “He got the whole charge of shot
She again put her short black pipe to her lips, and renewed her smoking

my flesh, I hope, is strong enough to accomplish the will of Heaven,
now. What do you see amiss in me?”
“A balloon,” said Oz, “is made of silk, which is coated with glue to
endless hours of pain—he felt a hand laid on his shoulder. He started



through as a man’s voice, very thin and far away.
entreated, and to yield.”

the right to command them once more.”
no trace of tears. I suppose, then, your heart has been weeping blood?”
bread and drank of his cup, and lay in his bosom, had by some mistake

The water stood in my eyes to hear this avowal of his dependence; just
“But I am not angry, Jane: I only love you too well; and you had
morning, at daybreak, I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door
      any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been
“What should I see besides Aunt Reed in the apartment?—a man or a
Farfrae again looked out of the window into the thick of the fair.
Diana and Mary appeared in the chamber once or twice a day. They would
“With labour and time.”


her from a real bad marriage, and she’s never been the one to thank
before, and the others consisted of Ernest Harrowden, one of those
high up above everything the spires and dome of the Palace of Oz.
      has no brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome. Her
      “Mr. Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
flung the pieces away. How ugly it all was! And how horribly real
“I give him employment—I cannet refuse it. But neither can I blind
disappeared for a time to return in his natural garments, he had an

were embroidered the verses of a song beginning “_Madame, je suis tout
alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her
moved to the door. At going out he turned his eye upon her.
nose?”
was rather too hard.”
      whether Pemberley were not a very fine place? what was the name
one day.”
sagely. “And what’s more, I love Daisy too. Once in a while I go off

tied, and Quelala said a kind word for them also; so that Gayelette
market, when no one could readily notice their discourse.

queries puzzled, but did not draw her out. Mr. Rochester was Mr.

Rochester had forced me to accept a few days ago. I left that; it was
pick them up. But I don’t want to interrupt you. Go on with your

      to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself,
      determine how her mother would take it; sometimes doubting
      any but him. Miss Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy, her sister
brush of the wind, returning to the attentive ear Æolian modulations,
a few moments and then passed, leaving after it a sharp sensation of
but to my surprise she neither wept nor blushed: composed, though
lips.
felt a sudden chill. As he proceeded I noticed that his accent was
“Well,” said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, “I see
churchyard.
have not been trampled on. I have not been petrified. I have not been
winced. He hated the idea of even touching them.
He drew his breath short, and strained me so close to him, I could

extent of country could be seen. A footpath ran steeply down the green
“Yes.”
      you will think of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at
      “And of your infliction,” cried Elizabeth with energy. “You have
advertisement or other—words to the effect that she, the writer,
money, or whatever he wanted? I stuck out for no terms—I said ‘Name
      “Nearly three weeks.”

man passed him in the mist, walking very fast and with the collar of
no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully
truth, a great change had come over him with regard to her, and he was
“Then I will say nothing, and you shall judge for yourself, sir.”
      least dear to her of all her children; and though the man and the
she passed through the crowd. He felt glad at what he had said.
“Well, how wet and cold you must be, such a wild night as it is! Come
      must produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that
endways and enfilading the long thoroughfare from top to bottom. The
other he handed to the valet.
      every glance convinced her of what she dreaded; for though he was
“You know you can’t kid me, Corley,” he said.
will allow.
Elizabeth-Jane.’”
somewhat homely construction, formed by tacking one of the small Union
“That’s ugly,” said Mr Power.
“I hear you fired all your servants.”
“You have nothing to do with the master of Thornfield, further than to
much—more than I could trust myself to say—more than words had power to


just for a holiday. Of course, her father had found out the affair and
      merely answered her question, and read on. At length, quite

Her husband called after her:
began an impassioned conversation aside.
      were concerned. Till this moment I never knew myself.”
cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my
spoken to me out of a sense of duty. I looked humbly at the great jars
      since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any
his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.
to scarecrow green, had regularly watched Henchard in the market-place,
      claim her hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her in a
hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete!
“I might as well ‘gild refined gold.’ I know it: your request is
The old man returned to his seat by the fire, saying:
shocked. Give her some explanation before I see her again. It pains me
did it mean?

uncertainty, the vague sense of insecurity, which accompanies a
a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and



regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in
She conducted me to her own chair, and then began to remove my shawl
      inclined to believe it all Darcy’s; but you shall do as you
He would not take it. “No, no; such is not for me,” he said drily, and

her joy at seeing him quite at home there. Not on account of her friend
Lord Henry, dipping his white fingers into a red copper bowl filled
pockets which regulated at the bank hard by a balance of never less
      addressed, “there is meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies

man, in spite of his tantalizing declaration, was really in earnest.
a plain and small one, the shop humble, and on inquiry he concluded he
passionate purity. One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the
left Gatsby’s drive not two minutes before. The sharp jut of a wall

      without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
      “That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep, intricate

      least altered by her communication.
them to bed: afterwards I supped with the other teachers. Even when we
CHAPTER XXXI
      secure Jane in her interest; but Jane, with all possible
you get into bed?”
Jordan put her hand on my arm.
no peculiar development of feeling or taste which raised her one inch
piece of string in his mouth. It was about this time that Dorothy woke
completely stultified.

pleasure subsided in me as fast as did the accelerated throb of my
ideas.
      London.”
pleasant winter afternoon walk. Having seen Adèle comfortably seated in

Mr. Rochester entered, and with him the surgeon he had been to fetch.
admired this aspect or that of the feudal silhouette against the sky,

door, but I ran up to her.
      together, and in a tone which had something of real regret, that
and then you will be stern, and I shall have much ado to please you:
The back of Elizabeth’s head remained still, and her shoulders did not
in that staircase; I heard it open and close, and all was still.
extensively in proportion to the narrowness of their income. For the
      At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the
burst of chatter as the erroneous news goes around that she is Gilda
soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often disappeared in the

I drew them large; I shaped them well: the eyelashes I traced long and
could not forget that the Scotchman had once shown a tender interest in
      standing on the steps of the house as they entered the paddock;
     The Rev. James Flynn (formerly of S. Catherine’s
“No more I ought,” said she: “Mr. St. John tells me so too; and I see I
affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form

as I was saying: sitting in that window-seat, do you think of nothing

      power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy

She pondered the position, and agreed with him.
Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered

ma’am, she yelled and gave a spring, and the next minute she lay

little accustomed to expansive comment, “Rather an unusual physiognomy;
her apprehension to him when they met. But it was done to no purpose.
“We can do nothing for him,” said the Tin Woodman, sadly; “for he is
surveyor’s line till lost to sight on the most distant ridge. There was
frightened her—that made it look as if I was some kind of cheap

“I didn’t know there was a charm,” answered Dorothy, in surprise. “What
“Very well, sir.”


      replied, and was again silent. After a pause of some minutes, she
“Ah, poor heart!”
      everything in Mr. Darcy’s look and behaviour. The happiness
death in the rain. But he said he did not want to live. I can see his
his deep regret at the accident. The company had always taken every

easy to make the Scarecrow and the Lion and the Woodman happy, because
closed the street door.
“O father! how can you speak like that? It is unjust of you!” she said
      of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of his seeing too

“Well, ye must be a stranger sure,” said the old man, without taking
from the sample-showing hour to the idle hour before starting
together were rows of emeralds, set closely, and glittering in the
“‘No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that
nearing. It appeared from their accounts that the town band had been
      assuring them that he bore his young cousin no ill-will, and
attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the world to air
Gabriel’s mind that Miss Ivors was not there and that she had gone away
    Over the path of the poor orphan child.
friends, and nothing about my old ones.”
evening they would have, all the children singing! Only she hoped that
He stood on the mat, scraping the snow from his goloshes, while Lily

ray of her star. There was the stile before me—the very fields through
stars,—every one lit me to a purpose or delight. Those who had saved my
conformation for the endurance of cold than heat. But my chief
“Then, if you don’t mind, I’ll go with you,” said the Lion, “for my
      Bingley’s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.

“O Father Keon!” said Mr Henchy, jumping up from his chair. “Is that

worth the risk of repulse, ay, of life itself.
the precise nature of that position was I never clearly knew, but his
“Her very fingers!” he cried; “her small, slight fingers! If so there

with the key.
They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped


grave, and showed it to him. He stared at it. Its very horror made him
      “If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.”
awaiting him.
      all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think her a very good
time heard bitter ironies from Henchard’s lips, and there might be
      has the promise of an ensigncy in General ——’s regiment, now
uncommon in country villages; but, though Casterbridge was
enough, and when compared with the real head in chalk, the contrast was
“Is that so—ah, is that so?” said Farfrae, looking down. “Why should he
heaped.
could my darling do, I asked, left destitute and penniless? And what
“An island thousands of miles off, where they make wine—the butler did

      after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards,
the thin stem of his glass with his pale, fine-pointed fingers.

appearance. I wish you would tell me your secret. To get back my youth

friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted forward, and with
      she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.
Blowbody; that’s lucky.” (Blowbody was the third of the three borough
light! Cursed (although I curse myself) be the hands that formed you!
fathom the strange depth partially disclosed; that something which used
between the old favourites. Mr Holohan called to see her every day to




“You prefer not to perhaps?” Lucetta showed in her appealing tone how
the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in my imagination a
barked at them in a tiny voice, afterwards running away again.
shaking his head in perplexity. “He is powerful and terrible, and if
“Yes, we are overcharged for everything nowadays. I should fancy that
I look round and I listen. I see trees laden with ripening fruit. I

      Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so
advised me to be composed; I scorned the insinuation of helplessness
the service of a vast, vulgar, and meretricious beauty. So he invented
attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity
      she was ill at Netherfield?”

      am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate
“The mistress has been dead this mony a year.”
“Your bride stands between us.”

Clerval stretched before me. I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on
seemed, at the very keyhole of my chamber door. The head of my bed was
prayer any terrible power. If the picture was to alter, it was to
bureau door.
We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a few days
      she had heard. It was a long time before she became at all
“As white as clay or death,” was responded. “She will fall: let her
exclusively to the lower orders. I don’t blame them in the smallest

stillness of the world under this frost. I like Thornfield, its

lifted my hand; it stopped. I asked where it was going: the driver
      dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
there?
making a mistake, then I thought it all over again quickly and got up
“Mr. Brocklehurst is not a god: nor is he even a great and admired man:
      enumerating the advantages of the match. His being such a
greatly amused Dorothy. Toto was a fine curiosity to all the people,
     And of all who assembled within those walls
the dim light of the dips, their number to me appeared countless,
any man,” he added, “and I know true cultivation, or nobody do; and I

of his crimson mouth, and a target-like circling of his eyes.
while it swelled it in trouble, expanded it with life; and, best of

“What is it, Adèle?”
Mind you come. Or shall we lunch with our little duchess? She says she
      unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not
she will say to me. I am far too frightened to call.”

      mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
_Mr Shelley says, sir_. You have always some excuse or another for
      adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard.

“What is?” asked Lord Henry. “Oh! this accident, I suppose. My dear

      aware of. I assure you that if Darcy were not such a great tall
shore, from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and
sung in Italian, and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz, and
      Derbyshire.
The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short
      Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the

jaspers that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note of singular
hopeless and despairing.” She wept.
as tall as Dorothy, who was a well-grown child for her age, although
A fever succeeded to this. I lay for two months on the point of death; my
always by position, inferior: and to live familiarly with inferiors is



require? and that we may dismiss you to the moor and the rainy night?”
I explained to her that I had no parents. She inquired how long they
Longways replied with terminative emphasis, as if the fact of his
independent of all efforts, and all wills, but your own? Take one day;
      “I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,” replied Darcy, in a tone of
gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species. The saintly soul
      stairs to sit in my dressing-room.”
me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different

As he was in the hall I could not go into the front parlour and lie at

“Then you ought to leave it alone,” countered Doctor Civet.
wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and neck-handkerchief: bring them
arrived; no one arrived except more police and photographers and

Henchard’s face settled into an expression of stolid loneliness which
The painter considered for a few moments. “He likes me,” he answered
      they were.”
closed with a desperate thing. I really saw in him a tyrant, a
her, and they would get married, and come home, and live in an immense
the strangest sense of freedom, of triumph, I ever felt. It seemed as
too much of such a very excellent thing as my beautiful Blanche): well,
“But you will come, won’t you?” said Miss Ivors, laying her warm hand
“Nay; she couldn’t say.”

in a quiet, low voice; and added, after a pause, in the tone of a man
“O yes.”
stood.
deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile.”
men whose heads in walking swayed as the trees in November gales; who
woman’s heart, but not where you are concerned; for you I have only a
own, he chafed it; gazing on me, at the same time, with the most
      itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and
and rested his hand on my shoulder.
“That would be impossible, my dear boy.”
“But we must cross it,” said the Scarecrow. “We’re going to the country

It was nine o’clock—almost immediately afterward I looked at my watch
Of all the enigmas which ever confronted a girl there can have been
flowered once for Dutch sailors’ eyes—a fresh, green breast of the new
      for half-an-hour. Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had
The hard brown beetles kept thudding against the dull light, and
      To Catherine and Lydia, neither the letter nor its writer were in

      protection, and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible;
entered, and their leader addressed me. He told me that he and his
Mr Doran was very anxious indeed this Sunday morning. He had made two
contained a brief request that he would go to Weatherbury that evening
never knew—never, indeed, had any cause to know—that somewhat grotesque
      “Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.”
He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from
already waning. He was perfectly safe there. Nor, indeed, was it the
“Good-bye to Gateshead!” cried I, as we passed through the hall and
for its ears were lying close to its head and its mouth was wide open,

“You called my father ‘Michael’ as if you knew him well? And how is it

“I wonder why they did it!”
land. Twenty miles from the city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in
she continued, “that I am sure I could love you dearly. Won’t you let
and green the moss is that clings to these old trees. Surely no wild
upon me. I slowly descended. For nearly three months, I had never been
guests. I remember her bringing me up to a truculent and red-faced old
      the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke, joined to the
it to the ground; till somebody said, “Good morning, Elizabeth-Jane.”
      though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and
“Now, Jane, you shall take a walk; and with me.”



“I am happy,” said M. Waldman, “to have gained a
“It was an accident, George.”
have strength yet for that—if—but where is the use of thinking of it,
I might have found fitting nutriment, permanent shelter here. But I was
The Silver Shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have


different, but you must not like me less. I am changed, but you must
the coming spring and one of the two, you don’t know which, may turn
      other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter
verge of the path and was at times obliged to step on to the road,
there was a stack of dry clover. Elizabeth-Jane took in the situation.
passed me and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort of lives they
bank, half way up a steep hill. He rested his basket on the top of the


      for her—for a woman who had already refused him—as able to
      anything could be made out from them. His principal object must
sprinkled little stars that glistened in the sun like diamonds. The men
      “Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in


      She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat
      Its windows opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing
must be made by some force—of love, of money, of unquestionable
down at his desk to get what was required, he realised how hopeless was
study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human
is rich ...”
her voice. The conversation of the others in the dressing-room had
a wet mackintosh.
they were the full breasts of Diana Multimammia supinely extended
      Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable
whether destiny were hard upon him or not—the shape of his ideals in
forehead, and in her commonplace features, was nothing either of the
     And death has now united him
      country, for my part, except the shops and public places. The
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.
“I like to come,” Lucille said. “I never care what I do, so I always
      her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to
      up the acquaintance.
“Jane, I have got a blow—I have got a blow, Jane.” I could not forget
between the cup and the lip. St. John passed the window reading a
of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest
      “I have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear sir. Such very
The breeze was from the west: it came over the hills, sweet with scents
send two of his men round at once. It seemed to him that as the man
Once more I took off my handkerchief—once more I thought of the cakes
friend, of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than
When he was just on the point of driving off Whittle arrived with a

to himself; “nerves not in a good state.”
      again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins. There was novelty
into the house.

Miss Ingram; she was complimenting him on his acting.
“This I learned from her benefactress; from the pious and charitable
      The loss of her daughter made Mrs. Bennet very dull for several

      “May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left
Gabriel in a false voice. “He gave me back that sovereign I lent him,
War, and started the wholesale hardware business that my father
Cody he was in turn steward, mate, skipper, secretary, and even
some eclat to the career of our poor only heroine. When all has been
After a few hours the road began to be rough, and the walking grew so

      Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak
matter of conscience, even if she should wish to. After that they were
“Oh, very!” answered Oz. He put the heart in the Woodman’s breast and
eight-fifteen that evening.
“Did you leave the balcony, sir,” I asked, “when Mdlle. Varens
everybody in the room, the most astounding details. I simply fled. I
      “I should not mind anything at all.”
now it was not a mere bequest of coin,—it was a legacy of life, hope,

moment, they began to view him through a golden haze which the tone of
the world would know his secret then. Perhaps the world already
“Let us go, Basil,” said Lord Henry with a strange tenderness in his

“Who are you in love with?” asked Lord Henry after a pause.
At length, however, she sat up and looked about her.

 XXIV
he then produced a casket, opened it and showed magnificent bracelets

Every morning I lay on the floor in the front parlour watching her
towns, regions full of life I had heard of but never seen—that then I
corn-merchant opened himself frankly, holding her hand within his arm,
“Yet I have been with good people; far better than you: a hundred times
      “Certainly not; at first. But they are very pleasing women when
tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease.


      the man whom he always most wished to avoid, and whose very name
entreaties expressed in energetic whispers, I reduced the half-dozen to
      self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or
were thus revealed to me clearly: both removed their cloaks, and there
with straw, said, quickly, “Oh, yes; you can save our friend, the


shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one
fresh air again, instead of the poisonous scent of the flowers.

were composed in stern calm. Lenehan kept up with his friend, breathing
I reached the lodge at Gateshead about five o’clock in the afternoon of
“That Elizabeth-Jane Farfrae be not told of my death, or made to grieve
my proficiency that of the masters. Professor Krempe often asked me,
“God and nature intended you for a missionary’s wife. It is not
person, and so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of
collar of his coat, displaying, as he did so, an ivy leaf in the lapel.
thousand miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with that
Kate and Aunt Julia opened and carried across from the piano bottles of
been a careless shepherd if I had left a lamb—my pet lamb—so near a

“Well, you have been crying, Miss Jane Eyre; can you tell me what
“Well, it’s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is
her nurse’s hand and was pulled out the door, just as Tom came back,


Wilkins, the Conservative, but when the Conservatives had withdrawn
      that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige
best of feelings, the highest and the sweetest given to man, keeps far


determined to take me behind, so I consented. It was curious my not
branches to look at the fruit, large as plums, with which they are
to experience remorse, repentance; the wish for reconcilement to my
reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought
who offer it; but that is the sort of pity native to callous, selfish
could afford the modest sum asked. A sheet of newspaper was tied round
the man awoke. A warm glow pervaded the whole atmosphere of the
The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted
if we don’t look out the white race will be—will be utterly
pointed repartee: it was only a blunder.”
of peculiar charm. There had been some singing before she came down;
his sweet melancholy smile.
The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light
introduction, won’t you, Myrtle?”
must end.
shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over _The Times_. “Well,

He slowed down, but still without any intention of stopping, until, as
and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was

“Now then—‘An agreement entered into this sixteenth day of

gates and looked through them along the road; or when, while Adèle

He was conscious—and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his
      Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley’s dislike of her
worse of it: you’ve lost a little blood; that’s all. Carter, assure him
I neither expressed surprise at this resolution nor attempted to
and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. ‘Have a
that night. You said to me, ‘If I were a man I should not insist.’ That
“If I had anywhere else to go, I should be glad to leave it; but I can
      which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least
had done added a vivid charm to their joyous return home.
“I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am jealous of

discourteously: and he said with confidence in himself:
bread and cheese, has twice been served out to the girls during the
The intelligence was in a general sense true; and Henchard’s stores,
      “I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the
I liked to read what they liked to read: what they enjoyed, delighted
districts of the West! I have some inventions useful to the trade, and
“That’s the one from Montenegro.”
The rain beat strongly against the panes, the wind blew tempestuously:
      pretensions to your daughter’s favour, without having paid

of that and had converted the bathroom upstairs into a ladies’
passed since that day.”
simply abused her hospitality. He was thirty-four or thirty-five years
he could have annihilated them both in the heat of action; but to
dupe!—Could not even self-interest make you wiser? You repeated to
leave to defer it: no—it should be gone through with now. By dint of
“Look at this,” said Gatsby quickly. “Here’s a lot of clippings—about

doors of the coffee-house in the piazza. The heavy cart-horses slipped


When the plot had been disclosed to her, Mrs Kernan had said:

which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground. No distinct
“How do you know?”
elevated her son to the dignity of an audience. She felt sure that the
The Council with the Munchkins
      that marked his displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your

      affection with the same skill from the object of it, she may lose
had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold

conscience, consider it absolutely your own.”
Thornfield Hall—this accursed place—this tent of Achan—this insolent

      affronted at an idle report. For what do we live, but to make
his great box, and then he politely opened the gate for our friends.
nothing of me beyond that I am some sort of relation by marriage. She
Farfrae, after thinking of her so; but I did not. How strange it is
emotions she had not the least suspicion; but on Henchard’s alone.
“girls off the South Circular. I used to take them out, man, on the
deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart. Snow

      everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy. Do
stood at the hotel door, he felt that they had escaped from their lives
elaborate bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door.
stopped, bit his lip, and abruptly left me.
taking the note with the curiosity of a poor woman expecting
      afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot
worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my
the Head. Here are the other things I used to deceive you.” He showed
this story, without, of course, any prejudice to the fact that the
      of objection; all loveliness and goodness as she is!—her
“I said this whilst I knelt down at, and unlocked a trunk which

Jopp came after dark, by the gates of the storeyard, and felt his way
      “My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are
Miss Temple had always something of serenity in her air, of state in
      does not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_.”
      had occasioned his intruding on Miss Bennet, and after sitting a

to you. I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to
eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency. The
Now it had been her custom to launch out into fervent admiration of
excited? Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity
Egg in a drizzle. After changing my clothes I went next door and found
the print of his huge step on the white plain. To you first entering
never lifted his head as we approached.
horror, hatred, warped his countenance almost to distortion; but he
commodious. All I see has made me thankful, not despondent. I am not

made him less antagonistic to the corn-factor. But Henchard continued

“So I’ll just say good-bye.”
      surprise to her relations by acquainting them with the honour
rear windows and the caught wind died out about the room, and the
“Hm?”
done to be neglected so, after the professions of solicitude he had
“Well, what did he want?”
I and my pupil dined as usual in Mrs. Fairfax’s parlour; the afternoon
return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those

      duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought
“Come in,” called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, “I have come
She was surprised, as she walked along, to see how pretty the country
“Thank you: I shall do: I have no broken bones,—only a sprain;” and
somewhat morose aspect, who installed herself at the top of one table,
I lived at West Egg, the—well, the less fashionable of the two, though
“How much am I worth?”
succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the
“How about the day after tomorrow?”

      “Engaged to Mr. Collins! My dear Charlotte—impossible!”
      than not. Now be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”
Miss Healy had to smile. Mr Holohan limped into the dressing-room at
THERE IS AN ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THIS TITLE WHICH MAY VIEWED AT EBOOK
Through wilderness or wood;

on the other.”
passed me quickly, and I lost it in the gloom. Nothing in human shape could
precise details of to-night’s incident. You are no talking fool: say


Was I very gleeful, settled, content, during the hours I passed in
hearts as in those of the best-born. My duty will be to develop these
“Two years.”


other men!”
“Your master himself may be beyond the British Channel, for aught you
I shook my head: it required a degree of courage, excited as he was
was heightened by a burning jealous dread of rivalry. Yet that Newson
      struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.
removed me effectually some yards’ distance; but I would not be driven

had been very slowly bending toward her all evening to attain this
people casually if they knew her, and I was the first one he found. It
      difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade, and within
with her and walked with her in a delicate poise between love and


be?”
      therefore, to go. Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked
“Why, Gretta?” he asked.
“M-a-v—” the policeman was saying, “—o—”
be proved; fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance

Now this same morning the Wicked Witch came to the door of her castle
and had thrust me upon a stool: my impulse was to rise from it like a
shall not. Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace
never heard Mr. Rochester’s voice or step in the house to-day; but
tell me that you have exhausted life. When a man says that one knows

love him. I love him because he is like what love himself should be.
distinction.”

herself and the children she employed a physician.
fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable
feared to find death.
no use of life. Instead of living for, in, and with yourself, as a
      thereby complete.”

many a time before. The mother, you know, she cocks him up with this
and looked at me challengingly. “You must remember, old sport, she was
volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression

bowed and went up the walk.
      rise to a general expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it

celebration of her happiness. Lucetta took no heed, but ran up the back
these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but two

      of her power, by running away.
And verily, to mak’ acquaintance with a man a-come from so far, from

“If they don’t take her for that, in ten seconds they’ll have to give
I would have asked who wanted me: I would have demanded if Mrs. Reed
you, write!
enough, and might conscientiously yield to the fatigue that almost
about not being very well that morning, I resumed my task, and

who is mine. What is marriage? An irrevocable vow. You mock at it for
      to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
hundreds.”
      nothing that can tempt him to—she is lost for ever.”

Over the great bridge, with the sunlight through the girders making a
and the keystone of the arch was a mask. Originally the mask had
I found him a very patient, very forbearing, and yet an exacting
brown and red labels, the third and smallest squad white, with
in their bills, the crowns of the mushrooms, and the tinkling of local
“Seek one elsewhere than in me, St. John: seek one fitted to you.”
you? Come in!”
extends. Yet, after all, as a friend and companion, I hope never to

after night. To learn to take the universe seriously there is no
when at home their countenances varied with the seasons, their
the fallow; shepherds in an intra-mural squeeze. A street of farmers’
covering the causeway, where a little brooklet, now congealed, had

green lemonade, and when the children bought it Dorothy could see that

“Nobody’s coming to tea. It’s too late!” He looked at his watch as if
blushes, it is a very bad sign. Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell

“Alphonse Frankenstein.
him, and declared with an oath that this was the last time; that if he
one of us. You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus with life?
accompanied by an embarrassed, slightly worn young man, with
now she’s avowed herself to another man!”
at once, but he did not. They had no word from him the next day, nor
decried, men feeling a natural instinct of terror about passions and
“What! out already?” said she. “I see you are an early riser.” I went
troubles and joys which moved the aristocratic families ten miles


as she went on. Her gestures became absurdly artificial. She
overheard, and set out on his way. Farfrae had not directed his man to
he would meet the coach.

wholly intent on analysing the mingled sounds, and trying to
instinctive certainty that she would not long endure me under the same
doing just as we pleased without calling anybody master. Perhaps some

And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead
her: Mr. Rochester, for instance. He is rich, is he not?”
endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession
      conceited woman.”
“I see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow; and that brow


Outside the door of the assembly-room he saw the waiter, and beckoning
to meet and grapple with him.


The room was silent again. Then a bustling little man with a snuffling
to gain a more definite notion of his identity.
the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest
“Yes, yes.” She looked thoughtfully round the room—at the little square
having secured for his son qualities often unpurchaseable. His father,

“What are you doing up here at this time?” he asked, coming forward.
“I am only a Scarecrow, stuffed with straw. Therefore I have no brains,
different from the first three months of stillness, monotony, and
“We will wait a few minutes, Jane, till you are more composed.” And
fixed on the conversation through the door.

for keeping it closed. It was odd about the necessity for that
which he balanced the fine problem of his finances. He was widely
“If you consent, neither you nor any other human being shall ever see
have made me what I am.
      slyness seems the fashion.
“Oh! He’s a curious animal and seems remarkably small, now that I look
marqueterie table.
confusion: the evil—if evil existent or prospective there was—seemed to
animal that I had struck or pushed had looked up at me with human eyes



      “As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet,
will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile on your
bridge as I lived nearest. I hid my books in the long grass near the
driven from the house, all gloomy associations forgotten: there was
girl. When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off my right



it. But first he resolved to register an oath, a greater oath than he
never before seen any half so imposing.
a sullied name you bear, nor what a filthy burden is bound to you. You
your path.”

shoulder. At this inquiry she sat up and opened her eyes.
Golden Cap, and said, “Why don’t you use the charm of the Cap, and call
_bear_ to be subjected to systematic arrangements. This is all very
than Elizabeth, and had a sparkling light in her eye. In front of the

that it has a limit. Conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the

Henchard, whatever his business at the lady’s house, reached his own

      complacency in her air and manner not often united with great
      which I have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What
“Did he ... peacefully?” she asked.
no means so far advanced between the young people as Henchard’s jealous

companion, also in black, appeared as a well-formed young woman about

A little lamp with a white china shade stood upon the table and its
CHAPTER XXXVIII—CONCLUSION
saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice.”
     Rise, like the Phœnix from the flames,
conquest for him.
 Araby
Tea over and the tray removed, she again summoned us to the fire; we
      “Not that I _shall_, though,” she added to herself, as she
There is not enough for three.”
only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of

one. If you have a fancy for anything in that line, away with you, sir,
the only limb clearly visible, whence the bracelet had been washed or


advice and said it was a great pity and urged him to be very careful of
Gabriel having finished, the huge pudding was transferred to the table.
answered.
“Some of these hillsiders and fenians are a bit too clever if you ask
with interest, if not warmth. His bitter disappointment at finding
had confessed, he did not credit it.”
“My dear boy,” said Lord Henry, smiling, “anybody can be good in the

above all the rest. She appeared of a different stock. The four others were
Witch, “so you cannot miss it. When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
“Well,” I reflected, “if you won’t talk, you may be still; I’ll let you
“I want him to give me some brains,” said the Scarecrow eagerly.
voice outside. “My dear boy, I must see you. Let me in at once. I can’t
ray from the moon penetrating some aperture in the blind? No; moonlight
“Why don’t you turn pale?”

Lord Henry looked across the table. “Dorian is never annoyed with me,”
partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal
      “That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried her
“Do you think you shall like Morton?” she asked of me, with a direct
man’s words, “Mr. Henchard, the Mayor,” reached her ears. She arose,


Fairfax had begged a holiday for Adèle, because she had a cold; and, as
“Browne is everywhere,” said Aunt Kate, lowering her voice.
you’ve seen about the room. Gretta was saying....”
      than half a dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that

One side of the churchyard—the side towards the weather—was sheltered
As he stood, mute and grave, she again fell to caressing Carlo. “Poor
for the fact that it was a lady much more beautifully dressed than she.
“If it wasn’t for the mist we could see your home across the bay,”

What does he want?”
      thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of
“It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your
depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not
sincerely laid his heart at her feet, I should have covered my face,
bass-viols, fiddles, and flutes under their arms.
people and he felt that the people were observing him curiously. He
      fixed on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less
My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events,

      longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.”
or master, or what you will—to smile too gaily, speak too freely, or

on the hard bricks. It never hurt him, however, and Dorothy would pick
had caught a cold, and it made her voice huskier and more charming
      “He is as fine a fellow,” said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were
right in what she said of him. Don’t spoil him. Don’t try to influence

well go as I came! It has served me right. I’ll trouble you no longer.”
immediately for the police.
The drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly
herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her

“How dreadful!” exclaimed Lady Agatha. “Really, some one should
interspersed by rifts that sink deep. The field of ice is almost a
manner and the young man was evidently perturbed. At last, when she
paper. Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it? But I was afraid of
      “Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?” said she.
had nor could have sympathy with anything in me, and should have
accounts, entertaining a houseful of guests at their home in Corn
out of the shop laden with a big bag. Then she thought what else would
death.
first recollections of existence included hints of the same kind. This

Half-past ten in the morning was about her hour for seeking this spot—a
“But I’m very sorry!” he said, in deprecating tones. “I came and I
metropolitan centres is to know nothing of his meaning. Here the face,
sitting there on the sideboard, I sat down and cried like a baby. By
brawled and screamed.

authoritatively. He watched while the two men standing closest glanced
hand played in the bass the melody of _Silent, O Moyle_, while the
      must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.” On
“As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and
upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with
“He struggled violently. ‘Let me go,’ he cried;
forget even to shake hands with me, but left the room in silence.
      passed. He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what
“You take Nick and Jordan. We’ll follow you in the coupé.”
this too. My hand moved towards the lock: I caught it back, and glided

choice. I walked a long time, and when I thought I had nearly done
      “And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate
      carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed
      what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves. They
“I fear you are right,” answered Mr. Erskine. “I myself used to have
      happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided. He
      him in his absence, she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew


the familiar bang of his door, and then his quick walk towards her. She
      principal enjoyments. To his wife he was very little otherwise
changed; the fetters dissolved and dropped from every faculty, leaving

death, need hardly be detailed. It was an affecting one, apart from the
      of cold ham and chicken. Elizabeth now began to revive. But not
his moodiness, his harshness, and his former faults of morality (I say
Chapter 48
hilly road, where the bitter winter wind, blowing over a range of snowy
nine-thirty, I hope. Remember, Patti is singing.”
water. Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and
My heart really warmed to the worthy lady as I heard her talk; and I

The patting at once grew louder in encouragement and then ceased

“What shall we do now?” asked the Tin Woodman, as the Lion lay down on
he had not quite anticipated this ending; and some of the guests
      Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
“I will go to my house to-morrow, and open the school, if you like,
She would put an end to herself, she said.
“Well, for cool native impudence and pure innate pride, you haven’t

youth, which is itself beauty, irrespective of complexion or contour.
the river in white heaps and sugar lumps all built with a wish out of
      whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely recollected her interest
remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I
overwhelm, no stateliness to embarrass; and then, as I entered, the old
      encouraged, almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing; to

“your disaster is irreparable. What do you intend to do?”
      Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature

The clock struck eleven. I looked at Adèle, whose head leant against my
“She has already said that she is willing to do anything honest she
“I won’t stand this!” cried Daisy. “Oh, please let’s get out.”
      repeated all his wife’s offers of refreshment.
independent now, surely the privilege is due to me!”
“None that would own me, sir. Mr. Reed is dead, and his wife cast me
Dorothy.




“We can’t argue about it here,” Tom said impatiently, as a truck gave
      reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the
smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite. The
“LUCETTA.”
alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him,
      feelings to Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet’s leaving them
stormy eyes.
powers to make a cyclone; but I’ve been thinking the matter over, and I

him that she felt she could never belong to another man, as a pure
      “What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam? What is it you are
      joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how
to his accustomed window recess, he began to read it.
punishment proportionate to his crimes. But I fear, from what you have
accents, and maternal Nature bade me weep no more. Then again the
having got out hastily and given the driver the extra fare he had
“Oh! but I have seen specimens of the inhabitants,” answered the
      meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade
“Here’s Freddy.”
manifested towards him. His power and threats were not omitted in my
years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some
“Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray? I always hear
      his friends, his house, his fruit—of everything but himself; yet
      only known that a gentleman had called on business.
“I know nothing whatever about mechanics,” he said decisively.
to me by the gate.
O’Rourke and another priest that was there brought in a light for to
while it is day—warned that ‘the night cometh when no man shall work.’
      which were divided between distress and diversion. Mrs. Bennet
“Well, I’m going to tell you something about my life,” he interrupted.
unequal to maintain, even externally.
“Then learn from me, not to judge by appearances: I am, as Miss

    A long time ago.”
wife of Henchard on the previous occasion; now her face had lost much
were silent on family secrets before. Bertha, like a dutiful child,

mother would speak with him that morning. She cried and threw her arms
conversation was turned into another channel.
piano, had gone away quietly in couples after a few minutes. The only
to regret that she had put herself to any expense for such a concert.

“You said it was not likely they should think of being married,” said
she again lifted it to her head. The personage on the well-brink now
      remain at Netherfield for the present. Elizabeth most thankfully

“What! to get more knocks?”
many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest colors.
      manner which would guard her from the suspicions of the


“Certainly, Lady Narborough.”
history of all the philosophies!”
Corless’s surrounded by lights and noise, of listening to Gallaher’s
 XLI
down-turned face, over which the twig shadows moved in endless
the idea of returning if set free. Yet could I, in justice, or even in
compose a female without again devoting several months to profound
sound of scorn. “You have given me a crown because you’ve one too many.
      expressed himself on seeing her again. He enquired in a friendly,
with the remains of prehistoric forts. The whole scene lay under the
the north-eastern side.
      lifetime.
waves, but on examination they found that the clothes were not wet and even
couldn’t buy some regular clothes. First time I saw him was when he

      “To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever
damp substance that covered the ground.

teach the person who struck us never to do it again.”
inquiries, and learnt of a road-mender, who had been working
been so startled by the child’s laughter that she would scream and
pagan, but a Christian philosopher—a follower of the sect of Jesus. As
hungry, and all talking in low, earnest voices to solid and prosperous
      sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the
the foot of the sign-post of Whitcross, waiting the arrival of the
      fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a
“How?” asked Dorothy.
being, but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to
looked out of the window.
“Oz has sent for you. Follow me.”
glazings shining bleared and bloodshot with the coppery fire they
      the better of me, if under such a circumstance I were to give a flat


spends a deal of money.”
his pace. His stick struck the ground less emphatically and his breath,
      “And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of
request—”

Hm!...
Mary Ann in the wood; we had, as usual, separated ourselves from the
was giving in the Mansion House. He said they were to leave the report

      It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel it.”
      representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider

little flirtation is over.”
      their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may
which I had hurried, blind, deaf, distracted with a revengeful fury
resembling him, but one in all respects his counterpart, his actual


She turned as if to appeal to the good sense of the others against a
      any I ever saw. The venison was roasted to a turn—and everybody
Before, dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to my
I jumped up, took my muff and umbrella, and hastened into the
“Jane, will you have a flower?”
      “Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and
internal form it might have been called the spittoon of the Jötuns. It
skimmity-ride as ever I knowed; and it ought not to be wasted. The last
bit that night. Then next Sunday, man, I met her by appointment. We
was rumoured that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a
her. “I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father,” he
might rest until the Great Oz was ready to receive them.
      there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a
it was. Well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth. To test reality
he was to save from the wicked, red-shirted bushrangers. For he was not


They had to go visiting together and, as he had not answered her, Miss
he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs
      as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to

      resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to _her_ of
The thoroughfare leading to this spot was now blocked by two four-horse
pulled his face down, kissing him on the mouth.
Ingram pair? She is standing alone at the table, bending gracefully
      mine, but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case,
journey.”
collecting and arranging my materials, I began.
      tolerably detached tone. While she spoke, an involuntary glance
      ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact
of temper, allowance should be made.”
      affection for the other.
in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed

“That I should like to have it is certain: whether it would be

he stood yet, at the close of the sentence, in the same attitude in
influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden flowers;
      Jane constantly sought the same means of relief.
recall that in her season of intimacy with him the name of the rich
me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the

“I like your company much!” said Lucetta, as soon as she could speak.
origin was fear and whose result was a degradation infinitely more
      “When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character—Oh! had I known
      this explanation.”
      “I am more likely to want  time than courage, Elizabeth. But it
as a priest does when he reads the prayers _Secreto_. This was the
“Have you seen young Mr. Farfrae this morning?” asked one. “He promised
of the year and then miss it? I always watch for the longest day in
“Rather costly, I suppose, my dear, was it not?” he hazarded.
whispered something to him upon which he allowed his glass to be
our very next issue.”
farmer carried me under his arm to the cornfield, and set me up on a

sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M.
“Will you give me a piece of bread? for I am very hungry.” He cast on
day when I received life!’ I exclaimed in agony. ‘Accursed creator!
begin by sneering at family life and family institutions, and next
While I paced softly on, the last sound I expected to hear in so still

“Give them to me and I’ll pick them.”
wretch.”
solitary as she stands by the table: she confronts him, taking her
      deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that
ever. So they started upon their journey once more.
      “I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long,” said Miss Lucas,
win. He was a serious young man, not rakish or loud-voiced like the
after the first meal.
I returned home not disappointed, for I have said that I had long
“Mr. Dorian Gray’s, sir,” answered the policeman.
I smiled: I thought to myself Mr. Rochester _is_ peculiar—he seems to

instruction and amusement. He was also pursuing an object he had long
she should not contract an alliance with him. I trust he is one of the
When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, “What do you wish
found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The wind was high, and
that ever was truly called, believed himself worthy of the summons? I,

“Perhaps that was why you wanted to go to Galway with that Ivors girl?”
“I would remind you of your lady’s existence, sir, which the law
enchanted objects had diminished by one.

order; and it was wonderful how I got over the temporary blunder—how I


      both on his account and my niece’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention

all the magic arts I know of to keep you from harm.”
were not sufficient company for me; nor would Pilot have been, for none

for yer gospel oath is a serious thing.”
one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How horrible
“Yes; he did not stay many minutes in the house: Missis was very high
“Two gentlemen and three ladies, Mary Jane!”
and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him.
the sudden death of the Liar, to which narrative my attention had been
“My mother is dead.”
“As you in all likelihood know, she was simple-minded enough to think

arms, he could see that the boy had inherited his own eyes, as they
of person and character. The evening arrival at the great town of ——

us continue as such: you and I had better not marry.”

      it was punishment to him to pronounce. He had done all this for a
“He has! Do you believe him? Have you accepted him?”

“Do you like him? Is he generally liked?”
A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth’s simple and powerful
with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might quit him,
movement, as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough for you, and
“I’m all that way of thinking,” said the new foreman. Jopp’s dislike of
Now I never had, as the reader knows, either given any formal promise
the painter and the screen. “Basil,” he said, looking very pale, “you
discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be
operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be
time;—I saw it in your eyes when I first beheld you: their expression

moor! Everywhere sunshine. I wished I could live in it and on it. I saw
“Take her away to the red-room, and lock her in there.” Four hands were
      prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and
“Are they like mine?” asked Henchard.

their bread, and now she did not know what they would do for breakfast.
far as practicable by Elizabeth-Jane, though less from a sense of the
“I will at least choose—_her I love best_. Jane, will you marry me?”
try to improve. Don’t be cruel to me, because I love you better than


that was low, some things that were baneful, could be seen in Mixen

      invaluable; but she checked herself. She remembered that he had
      sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your
      Darcy’s vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of
is some difference between living with such an one as you and with
forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that
“Daisy’s leaving you.”
Maria!”_ and Maria, blushing very much began to sing in a tiny
      offer in this very room, and she refused him. The consequence of
      to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my
“No, ma’am; she was sorry to have to do it: but my uncle, as I have
was alone.
We passed a few sad hours until eleven o’clock, when the trial was to
      so.”
“That’s why I came over tonight.”
      decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head,

“You had better tell me what you have to say to them. Where do you come
and ripped a front wheel off his car. The girl who was with him got
There was, in her cupboard, a Golden Cap, with a circle of diamonds and
Death, Funeral. My uncle I had heard was dead—my only relative; ever
“No—not always!” he said, shaking his head gloomily as he contemplated
don’t see how you two can return openly to my house as the wife and

      to say that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his

      desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn

“And I want him to give me courage,” said the Cowardly Lion.
      your time. Here are officers enough in Meryton to disappoint all
everywhere. Threading this chaos, I at last reached the larder; there I


It was a strong effort of the spirit of good, but it was ineffectual.

      gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real
Scotchman Mr. Farfrae—in the act of pouring some grains of wheat from
resource, or at least an informant. A pretty little house stood at the
make it last for ever. It is a meaningless word, too. The only
      cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought,
never see me.
their marriage would create he could see no _locus standi_ for himself

mine, but I have failed. When actuated by selfish and vicious motives, I
      together, Charlotte said:
“He is my dog, Toto,” answered Dorothy.
still throbbed life-like within me—a remembrance of God: it begot an

      “Everything being settled between _them_, Mr. Darcy’s next step
drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I
Gatsby who borrowed a rowboat, pulled out to the Tuolomee, and
upon the horrible thing. No eye but his would ever see his shame.
of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter. Oh,

      entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.
“Yes; I wish to know whether you have heard of any service I can offer
“Of all men he was the least desirable as a visitor,” he said; “but it
if to intimate that their presence prevented him from answering. As the

in her questions and Polly had been frank in her answers. Both had been
like moonlight; the same faint lustre touched the train of thin clouds
      nature to send. It was not known that Wickham had a single
“I know,” continued the unhappy victim, “how heavily and
no one else was interested—interested, I mean, with that intense
he knelt upon the footpace. Dropping his head upon the clamped book
      most kind and attentive to him; there had been no formality, no
was now looped up in one part, and there was a door apparent, which had
“Royalty be damned,” said Henchard. “I am as loyal as you, come to
thickened, he felt afraid.
two: these however, he vowed he would select himself. With anxiety I
die. Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on. The loves and sorrows
since the departure of Clerval from Geneva. But he has already
That’s my Middle West—not the wheat or the prairies or the lost Swede

history, he was haunted by a feeling of loss. So much had been
material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my
feelings were those of rage and revenge. I could with pleasure have
Therefore, as you must remain in the Palace for several days, I will

much less punished; though he twisted the necks of the pigeons, killed

axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into
conversation, Henchard turning to the other occasionally, and
      agree. I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every

      minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always
with his enemy. “Since you have preserved my narration,” said
“That’s a nice lady!” he said. “O, she’s a nice lady!”
      Change of scene might be of service—and perhaps a little relief
“Oh! if all you doubt is my sincerity, I am easy: you see the justice
Her lodgings being nearly opposite her stepfather’s former residence,
something with strawberries in it.”
unkindness along my future path; I saw myself transformed under Mr.
and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being
      nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine their

“Are you going?” they asked, in surprise.

“No—perhaps it would have been better if there had.”
“Mr. Reed was my uncle—my mother’s brother.”

anxiously.


towards the dread judge, and then Miss Temple gently assisted me to his
“Gytrash,” which, in the form of horse, mule, or large dog, haunted
these articles, I encountered the beads of a pearl necklace Mr.
hopeless heart and fainting frame—a voice wretchedly low and
thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent.
you are going to die.”
“You are wishing you were back again,” she said.
“You are flirting disgracefully with him,” said Lord Henry to his
“Perhaps it will be better soon,” said her friend gently. “So I would
more and then we’ll be off.”


like to see her?”
intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a
“I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian,” said Hallward, “but I
      Two days after Mr. Bennet’s return, as Jane and Elizabeth were
ascertained beyond a doubt. You are not perhaps aware,” he continued,
enough to say that we honestly meant to marry. There arose a scandal,
      Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her

      deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman

think, before I again hazarded a reply.
free from breakers. But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick
so; but then he is wholly uneducated: he is as silent as a Turk, and a kind

unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very
shape o’ cauliflowers and pigs’ chaps.”
Before a week was over he was to come across a large nugget of pure
other girl, who had lifted her head to listen to her sister, repeated,
“And you promised to give me brains,” said the Scarecrow.
on the wet ground, and looking through the low, latticed window of Moor
      she told me all about it.”

parrot-tulips were ranged on the mantelshelf, and through the small
“Society!” muttered the lad. “I don’t want to know anything about that.


entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained. I shunned
      should be said.



bonnet and having some tea; for she said I looked pale and tired. I was

Letter 1
most intensely that she would always be so pleasant and amiable, and
confess I was not quite indifferent to its import: at eighteen most
of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend,
smoothly, and drawn to a knob.

      Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as
Cody that Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay
“Don’t ’ee, don’t ’ee take on so!—As ’tis the Sabbath-day, and ’tis
other car, the one going toward New York, came to rest a hundred yards


times on certain days. Just as the latter was getting uneasy, some
express.
“They have no mother?”
withered cheek and warmed its frost.
What a consternation of soul was mine that dreary afternoon! How all my

had run away to hide himself, and that he vainly sought for him, and
Lucetta seemed to be outside this train of sentiment, her acquaintance
departure for Ingolstadt. Beloved and venerable parent! He still remained

Toward evening, when Dorothy was tired with her long walk and began to
letters were missing.
the dark, undeserted saloons of the faded-gilt nineteen-hundreds.


“Yes,” she answered, “I melted her with a bucket of water.”
      before _they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,—
“Yes.”
      however. The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked


wheels whetting their felloes against the newly stoned patches of road,
the shelter of his paternity than he discovered her to have no kinship
“A little.”
“But you comprehend me?” he said. “It is a village school: your
“No, old sport, I’m not. But Miss Baker has kindly consented to speak
advising—homely, in fact. She pushed the decanter towards him, saying:
      “But he paid her not the smallest attention till her
felt the consecration of its loneliness: my eye feasted on the outline
“No,” she continued, “it is in the face: on the forehead, about the
fine and brilliant. His heart was brimming over with happiness. Just


      range of woods overspreading many, and occasionally part of the
by her own observation, that I was endeavouring in good earnest to
now about to move again. Newson mounted, his luggage was put in, and in
pigsties afore I’d go away! For my part I’ve no more love for my
he would not make up his mind. Yet to Elizabeth-Jane it was plain as
From this window were visible the porter’s lodge and the carriage-road,
      “May I ask to what these questions tend?”
and commotion; the soup and fish were in the last stage of projection,
solicitor, wrote to us last August to inform us of our uncle’s death,
      not consider it entirely hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes

square, with its blank, close-shuttered windows and its staring blinds.
Three minutes later, when she had left the window, knocks, not of
      did every thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill
      “No, she would go home. I fancy she was wanted about the
acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment. My companion will
      Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said
I am certain. I like you more than I can say; but I’ll not sink into a

reflection upon melancholy subjects. But her temper was fluctuating;
been left for him. Freddy Malins also took a stalk of celery and ate it

Meantime she sang: her song was—

to one side, doubled the paper down before him between his elbows and

you or watched for you. The next day I observed you—myself unseen—for
“Yes.”
Bessie had now finished dusting and tidying the room, and having washed
“Something to think over when we are alone, it’s like to be?”
Elizabeth-Jane said she was so glad, and made herself receptive.
Middle West—all dead now. I was brought up in America but educated at

Grace Poole bursting out upon me.

never driven away. I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a
his parched mouth with a handkerchief.
      Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a
the long curls that kissed her cheek and floated to her shoulders, can
“But I’m done with you,” said Mr Holohan.

enough to travel. I looked very pale, she observed. I replied, that
window-seat (you see I know your habits)—”
on eighteen years since I met him. He hasn’t changed much since then. I
cook or the taste of their waiting-woman. Mr. St. John had said nothing
anything else. But you never sat better. You were perfectly still. And
side of the hall and outside she heard a melancholy air of Italy. The


He passed out of the room and began the ascent, Basil Hallward
“Did I like his voice?” he asked.

“No; I know I should think well of myself; but that is not enough: if

could double him up like that—and yet I don’t.” He laid the poker

the mainland, which was about five miles distant.


innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot, and enthusiastic
“What has happened?” he asked. “Oh! I remember. Am I safe here, Harry?”
holding my hand she made me rise, and led me into the inner room.
“I lived long ago with mama; but she is gone to the Holy Virgin. Mama
the interior of his establishment and gazed hollow-eyed at the car.
who couldn’t get into the army at all.


timidly. She wanted to relight her candle at his for hers had been
“Good-evening, Freddy,” said Aunt Julia.
performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most
eyes there was a look of cunning and in the mouth the curved wrinkle of
—I was walking along from one place to another, half on the sidewalks
so that we’ll have the table to ourselves.”
      The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made
victories of the Lamb, who are called, and chosen, and faithful.
the filth and ooze of the floor on which he had lain, face downwards.
      few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected
bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted
was wide and the other deep, and both were filled with water. I heaved


I assured him I was naturally hard—very flinty, and that he would often
      to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it
After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered
that.”
question or two.” He paused.
the gaunt trees. He walked through the bleak alleys where they had
crystal glass.”
between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my
was over.
only do away with the other Witch; but, now that you have melted her, I
and white cheeks, showing you what a stout heart men may bear. Cheer
to me—I know not whether equally so to others—that the eloquence to

“‘And he’s better tempered, and Henchard’s a fool to him,’ they say.

It was true. I confessed it by silence.

rocks, where he lay so battered and dented that he could neither move
“It came to you crowned.”
them when I see you. Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man’s
      time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she
gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes, fascinated him. He knew in
the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he
fortifying his heart by drinking more freely at the Three Mariners
half-an-hour ago, by the sun; for I’ve got no watch to my name.”

“And have consequently displeased him?” she suggested.
      humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of

      of friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would
man! His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their
silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in. I am not going
not likely, but if it should have taken place he would wait till their
ten.
use for it.”

“JOHN EYRE, Madeira.”

      know there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He
      at Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?”
strange.”

He considered for a moment. Then, with reluctance: “I want to get the

insistence—“I mean, compared with London or Dublin?”
      met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such
had caught a glimpse of in the mirror. Instinctively he turned his back
daughter, which, at its very birth, Charity received in her lap—cold as
I went to my window, opened it, and looked out. There were the two
And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every
      his wife?”
moderate supplies over the telephone. The grocery boy reported that
turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its wirelike line of silver,
escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my


desired on furniture than on clothes. From his appearance he had
it, only impudence. He takes th’upper hand of me whenever he sees I’ve


“’Tis quite on the understanding that the young woman is willing,” said
yes: no jail was ever more secure. Returning, I had to cross before the
when the second eye was done I could see much better than before. Then
      circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it
“It is near midnight,” I said.
through the heat until after five, when he strolled over to the
well, with the curious patient memory of the celibate, the first casual
      And a special licence. You must and shall be married by a special

darkness, I thought I would lie down on my bed, dressed as I was. I

Terrible moment: full of struggle, blackness, burning! Not a human
I had at heart a strange and anxious thought. Something had happened
man named Bunsen, whom I knew at Yale, and Doctor Webster Civet, who
dense trees of the avenue rendered the road dark as a tunnel, though
“Ask me an easier one,” said Mr Henchy.

      would have spared her, she thought, one sleepless night out of
“Miss Julia Morkan, my latest discovery!”

The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence
round off a memorable day in a burst of evening harmony, was
other, for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below;
He rose and walked through the room. Standing still, he again looked at
a magical sleep and slain. According to the great alchemist, Pierre de
      perfectly needless.
“Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!” cried Jordan dismally.
started through the gate into the cemetery I heard a car stop and then
Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light. Tom and Miss Baker sat at
good, and would watch over him. She would pray for him, too, and in a
knob, a damp voice, and eyes like button-holes. “Who’ll make an offer
“What can we do to save him?” asked Dorothy.
      Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by the
whose entrance they thus greeted. A long stride measured the
So the Scarecrow followed him and was admitted into the great Throne
      “It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter
      Elizabeth made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his
hand in these exchanges of sentiment. Under this revelation of insight
My father, indeed, imposed the determination, but since his death, I
hid hers from view for a few seconds and then she reappeared running up

believed, as he said, that she preferred his “_taille d’athlète_” to
surging in my breast.
bitterly feel the want of a friend. I have no one near me, gentle yet
biscuit!”
song Joe was very much moved. He said that there was no time like the
I would not now have exchanged Lowood with all its privations for
“About that. As a matter of fact you needn’t bother to ascertain. I
the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become
Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
carriages containing the Royal visitor and his suite arrived at the
      visitor had been, was very great; but they obligingly satisfied
“My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can’t think of
“You shall do no more to-night,” he said at length, spreading his great
saw Freddy Malins coming across the room to visit his mother Gabriel
I began to walk about the room, examining various indefinite objects
      six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil enquiries

amid the chilly circle of her accomplishments, waiting for some suitor

absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack
had a slight figure, a pale, gentle face, and fair hair. Her black
sixpence for a fairing.”
      received by Mrs. Bennet with a degree of civility which made her
well.
do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril
The mayor walked up and down the vestibule of the hotel with his hands
scantling o’ cheese and—”
felt she could not aid in the search.
      satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any
The voice begged again to go.
a person (as his father agreed) was well worth knowing, even if he had
“Mak’ ’em into pies.”
Glasgow, and of all the friends they had there. While her tongue
when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of
“I was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen; and of late
“And you ought not to think yourself on an equality with the Misses

compassionate her forlornness; but one really cannot care for such a

      behaviour to Miss de Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss

strong—far too strong—and was well-nigh ruined by it! I did a deed on


A fine spring shone round me, which I could not enjoy. Summer
tolerable to me in the character of creditor for such an obligation:

      “Yes—but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.”
light fell over her head. Next she flung herself on the couch in the

remained but a blasted stump. When we visited it the next morning, we found
      us of his concern, before he had any idea of their not being gone
I was thinking of—you, and me—and how strange it is that I am here.”
nothing. A lemonade? No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all,
its senselessness into forms.
sheaf of papers held together by a brass pin. In these sheets a
the man: he can go his ways as if nothing had happened, having had his
night, and by some desperate pleading to attempt the well-nigh
him.
manors. You sold them slily the next morning, and the day after you
trick that would give her what she wanted. She placed a bar of iron in
     He lies slain by the coward hounds
      bought my bonnet, if it is only for the fun of having another

of the former: the few words which had passed between them assured me
by it. Look at all the factories down by the quays there, idle! Look at
      complaints can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can
“Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!”

to increase your own.”
“I have known everything,” said Lord Henry, with a tired look in his

      Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, “Yes, you know
Now Henchard had not the slightest suspicion that Elizabeth-Jane’s

Then they passed by lonely brickfields. The fog was lighter here, and
reference to these points sounded like a sentence pronounced for doom.
her suspicions. He listened carefully and said that perhaps it would be
“I did for myself that way thoroughly,” said the trusser with a
crude _vivâ voce_ system of Henchard, in which everything depended upon
her hair (by candle-light at least) still black; her teeth, too, were
      troubling him also with Lizzy. Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil

extraction on one side or the other. She was probably some years older
He put out his hand with a quick gesture, but not seeing where I stood,
It was not a bright or splendid summer evening, though fair and soft:
to the door and watched its lamps approach rapidly through the gloom.

“Yes, yes—and so do I yours!” Elizabeth chimed in soothingly.
      for their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins;
became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation;
“If this man was alive,” he said, pointing to the leaf, “we’d have no
“Good night,” called Miss Baker from the stairs. “I haven’t heard a
The late! I seem to have received, with full force, the blow I had been
before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of


“Fetch that stool,” said Mr. Brocklehurst, pointing to a very high one
your time and experience.”
“Well, you come,” she urged, concentrating on Gatsby.
their scent of spice and apples; and these fragrant treasures were all

“I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to tell me.”
“Yes!” answered Dorian Gray. “It was here I found her, and she is

time. In fact, you are sure to be out of town. And if you keep it
      “And so ended his affection,” said Elizabeth impatiently. “There
could not sway the crowd but he might appeal to a little circle of
philosophy, including mathematics.”
      Elizabeth shook her head over this letter. It convinced her that
it. It was the man in that car. She ran out to speak to him and he

“How can I?” said the old man, “when there’s no corkscrew?”
“St. John made you schoolmistress of Morton before he knew you were his
“Would he be in soon?”

lightly on his arm, as lightly as when she had danced with him a few
being ought to do. Take this advice: the first and last I shall offer
which she had been lodging since her arrival, that she knew a queer
a stray lamb in my arms. You wandered out of the fold to seek your
limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had

      of us, that in Lydia’s last letter she had prepared her for such
I need not narrate in detail the further struggles I had, and arguments
Elizabeth-Jane heard no more. She saw that they continued in

that we may get jist a sense o’t out here. If you mount the steps you
Daisy took her face in her hands as if feeling its lovely shape, and
      “I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the _appearance_ of it
sail until the month of June; and when shall I return? Ah, dear sister, how
      Darcy looked up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention

look very pale—and so thin! Poor child!—poor girl!”
like—or rather as your mother advises ye. ’Od send—I’ve nothing to say
a morocco pocket-book, thence produced a letter, which he read in
      believed enough to make her former assurance of her sister’s ruin
athletic sense of the term—broad chested and thin flanked, though
to dance. “The shops are all shut. Why don’t they come?”
house.”
that time you can get lodgings—the only ones in the town fit for you
that I was not going to Australia at all. I have a great mind to chuck
      fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to
in angry shame for her, and, peremptorily saying, “Never mind—I’ll
happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that
of the day had produced. Night was far advanced when I came to the
It was rumoured of him once that he was about to join the Roman
“A fig for Rizzio!” cried she, tossing her head with all its curls, as
      observation on the house and garden to Mrs. Collins, sat for some
When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait
this one little English girl for the Grand Turk’s whole seraglio,

      appearing forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young
friendship—that period in the history of a love when alone it can be
      her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured,

her I received as made to a possession of my own. We called each other

hopeless—my soul athirst and forbidden to drink—my heart famished and
yourself. Life is not governed by will or intention. Life is a question

      Here, leading the way through every walk and cross walk, and
subject. I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was,
creature, and very grateful.
“No—nor to-morrow either; I should think he is very likely to stay a
that they resented an exactitude which was the produce of a leisure not
England to some savage country where the woods were wilder and thicker,
still drank large quantities of water from the tumbler behind the clump
couples. When she reached him she said into his ear:
murdered my brother?
and he eventually recovered the sight of that one eye. He cannot now
      room, and was assured with unwearying civility that they were
Not, certainly, that of persons who saw me then for the first time, and
he is. He is the last Lord Kelso’s grandson. His mother was a Devereux,
_croquant_—(overlook the barbarism)—_croquant_ chocolate comfits, and
“Good evening, Mr. Rivers. And good evening, old Carlo. Your dog is
the defective laws and erring control of my feeble fellow-worms: my
their labours by servants. They did not appear rich, but they were
“Of course,” he said. “Your wish is reasonable, and I am far from
you. Which is the work of art, sir?”
has been very good to us, and we owe him money.”
“Oh, he set off the moment he had breakfasted! He is gone to the Leas,
      have done all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his
increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash


No; that was impossible. Hour by hour, and week by week, the thing upon
long appear so much the more evidently for their temporary suppression.
voice calling a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away from
them tomorrow. In fact, there’s a sort of picnic or something. Of
      which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.
      respect; and I am happy to say there will be some little money,
proofs of such grim paternity written in her countenance: Pilot is more
her uncritical as to station. In her poverty she had met with repulse
morning of warm November rain, which floated down like meal, and lay in
it must be, and that without delay; and I told him so.
“What can I do for you, my child?” she asked.
toothache, and went up the path. The window shutters were not closed,




standing open, they heard a heavy footstep coming up the stairs. It
adventure sweetens that sensation, the glow of pride warms it; but then
dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. My God, Harry,
      kind. Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked
      away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with

      Tuesday. It will then be publicly seen that, on both sides, we
“Half-seven at M’Auley’s be it!”
had never, all along, intended doing anything at all. But it was done
Amy Eshton, not hearing or not heeding this dictum, joined in with her
instantly drove away.
subject, he exhausted his listeners. The duchess sighed and exercised
Freddy Malins acting as officer with his fork on high.
Chapter 13
      being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people
discovered she was gone—no one could tell when, where, or how. She had

      “is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.”
New York all afternoon.”


burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.”



so large to look at as those of the Scarecrow, but you are really
I rushed out of the court in agony. The tortures of the accused did
splendid style as long as anyone could remember; ever since Kate and
Nationalist friends, Miss Healy, the contralto. An unknown solitary
different kind. After Elizabeth’s departure for the muff the
shot himself one night in his laboratory, but had not revealed the
happy. Of course, it is sudden—all really delightful things are. And
with vigour.
movement. He rose to his feet, and stood like a dark ruin, obscured by
natural affection, she has developed the overshadowing tree,
will tell you all about it.”
scattered.”
“That shall be given to you upstairs. I could not give it here. You
agree?”
she might be right and I wrong; but I would not ponder the matter

insistence round the dusty gilt horns of the straggling woodbine,
      “I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kitty fretfully.
relieved the burden of my mysterious woe.
little time that remains to them close to each other. Come! we’ll talk
      Mr. and Mrs. Collins well.”

the midsummer days favoured my inclination to apply.”
“Well,” said he, “if you had committed a murder, and I had told you

      not be secure.
      agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next
journeymen—steady churchgoers and sedate characters—having attended
grasping cries:
As soon as the first part was ended Mr Fitzpatrick and Mr Holohan went

in was rum. The man as slily sent back money in payment.
for vivacity. Nor was her residence at her mother’s house of a nature


engaged.”
the funeral day, the coffin, the hearse, the black train of tenants and
darkness and cast my basket into the sea; I listened to the gurgling sound

sentimental tunes and airs on the piano, and then, having fetched a
and surviving the laughter and the sound of his still glowing garden.
then pronounced sentence. These words fell like the knell of doom—
mill, walking round and round in order to drive the mill. That was all

task was a very hard one; but, as I was absolutely resolved—as my
as many as he put in the basket. But the Scarecrow did not mind how
      In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet’s visit, and sat
      news—and about a certain person we all like!”
wreaths thrown by lighted windows on the snow. I am part of that, a
with a grand-dame’s bounty.
mind:—“Those who want situations advertise; you must advertise in the
smiling mechanically to fellow-tradesmen, and arguing with
relatives at Christmas and escorting them to the cemetery when they
wordy wonderment. Mary did look up, and she did stare at me: the ladle
not tell what to make of him.
with the green whiskers for a big clothes basket, which he fastened
      generally believed to be. The world has been deceived in that

      “That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam, “but it is
attendance and precautions at Thornfield: then travel yourself to what
persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of my
“Ah! well, come forward; be seated here.” He drew a chair near his own.
tastes, entirely suited to one another. But so blind is the experience of

      speak what I think.”
drawing-room at Gateshead, but comfortable enough. I was puzzling to
      Fitzwilliam himself—from whom she had previously received the
      hear any of their discourse, but she could see how seldom they

      you was decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which
      In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow,
“Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until
that are ruled by the Powers above us! We plan this, but we do that. If
gloomy monitress. The carriage was ready: they were bringing it round
He was so hard up he had to keep on wearing his uniform because he
it were attempted. By giving open information they would have brought
the air and back to the bank, where Dorothy and the Lion and the Tin
often wandered wide from my path. The agony of my feelings allowed me
“Ye’ve not been used to sarvant’s wark, I see by your hands,” she

“I do; and if an oath is necessary to satisfy you, I swear it.”
happy to see him the next day.
      lively; and she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.
      and eloquence awaited her there.
the only link that held me to the world. For the first time the
quickly was: my best dress (the silver-grey one, purchased for Miss
has a perfect host, and a perfect library.”

He nodded ever so slightly, as a receipt of her decision and no more.
morning portion of Scripture—the Lesson for the day; her Bible lay open
brain was in tumult, and all my heart in insurrection! Yet in what
      manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle. Elizabeth, who had
“You must see the carriage, Jane, and tell me if you don’t think it
often just what I wished to gain.”
“O yes,” said Mr Power.
in his feeble mind, shown in the continued interest he takes in his
was interrupted by a resounding knock at the hall door. Mary Jane ran
the straw I am stuffed with would come out, and that would spoil the


pieces of twine to hooks in the ceiling; for when the guests grew
He spoke as if Daisy’s reaction was the only thing that mattered.
goodness—yes, goodness. I wish to be a better man than I have been,
Henchard), no messenger was despatched towards Weatherbury. Henchard,
      match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each was
      whom she almost looked up to as a father, acknowledged the whole
dare offer now. I see at intervals the glance of a curious sort of bird
I can’t talk Italian, or use globes, or show any of the accomplishments
and hand are burning hot. I ask again, is there anything the matter?”
alone. Night had set in for more than half an hour, but she had not had
happiness. We won’t quarrel. I know you would never harm any one I
All art is quite useless.
figure, which we at once recognised as Miss Temple.
XXXII.
relieved by this idea (which I failed not to execute that day), I
successor, who had been matron at the Lowton Dispensary, unused to the

triangular drawer passed slowly out. His fingers moved instinctively
I told him.


      It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the
front seat at the time the play-actors came to the Town Hall!”
purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body. For this I had

      chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are
      would be certain. But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless
were generally a few rioters around, but they never came into the
“Well, yes. I think so.”
CHAPTER VI
had been drinking.
he has got this power over you, that you promise to marry him against
      was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel
      Wickham, and rejoiced in it.
the one person in my life who has really influenced my art. Whatever I
into them: he would drown her. She gripped with both hands at the iron


 Chapter XVIII. Away to the South
adventures related in the literature of the Wild West were remote from
      Darcy, on particular occasions, and in particular places; at his
do something in return for your goodness—something practical?”
water then: I must bring an egg at the least, to say nothing of fried
soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that
“Far from it, sir. You would, perhaps, think me rude if I inquired in
      believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that
eligible young ladies.”
spectacles on her nose, and black mittens on her hands.
      where Lady Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were
      “Sir, you quite misunderstand me,” said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
Europe—Paris, Venice, Rome—collecting jewels, chiefly rubies, hunting
looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his
exact center of the cyclone. In the middle of a cyclone the air is
fled: for I felt my forehead dewy, and my cheeks and lips cold. When I
beautiful to me; they were full of an interest, an influence that quite
declared or covert, all around you; as it is, the greater number would
 Chapter X. The Guardian of the Gates
walk out alone, first along by the river and then through the park! The
to French vineyards and Italian plains; and she shall see whatever is
      as desirable for everybody.”
      tried to remember some of that gentleman’s reputed disposition

thought of what I left. I could not help it. I thought of him now—in
would yet see me glittering like a parterre.”

did not herself seem to consider she was doing anything out of her
fascinated him. She glanced at him once or twice and, when the party
not to suppose that I desired perfection, either of mind or person. I
I’d be damned if I’d go in; I’d had enough of all of them for one day,
because he is so talented; and there is often a certain heroic grandeur
nearer together. Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated

The ground was hard, the air was still, my road was lonely; I walked
“A poor blind man, whom you will have to lead about by the hand?”
When I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn; their

      faulty. But if otherwise—if regard springing from such sources is
With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass

anything that he says.”
found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground. I slaked my thirst
The season of the assizes approached. I had already been three months
“Not at all, not at all, Mr. Gray. Ever ready to do anything for you,
can make. He thought his love slept sweetly: he finds she is stone
      had not believed it possible.”
gentlemen that Mr Kernan’s tongue would not suffer by being shortened.
      my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your
While they debated this question a procession of five large waggons
      as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about

      struggled to support her spirits, there were periods of

As Mr Holohan was a novice in such delicate matters as the wording of

      obliged to convert the offer of the chaise to an invitation to
“O now, Gabriel,” said Aunt Kate, laughing, “he had a starch mill.”

      miles of us. Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect him here
disaster? What loss, besides mortar and marble and wood-work had
overshadowed it. The evening sun seemed to shine more yellowly there

serious moods and occupations were acceptable, that in his presence
the ripe corn.
soon the band of Winged Monkeys flew in through the open window and


to light on his head and get the pins in their feet. When all were
and hat, and stood on the brink of the stream with his hands clasped in
      while her courage was high, she immediately said:

saying quite loud, “O, I wish I was dead with dear mother!”
in which she had been treated so roughly of late that her spirits fell.





Tavern, Hoxton Road, by Mr. Danby, the District Coroner, on the body of
evening with us. He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit
generation into which I was born was tedious. Some day, when you are
would like us to stay waiting there, talking to one another? Ay, well!
drinking man once, and used your mother roughly—I’ll be kinder to you

      for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have
rounded Gatsby’s drive with the raw material for his servants’
“For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you. Usually because I
“I am not sick.”

      which her estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute
kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has
was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became
      “I hope,” said she, as they were walking together in the

      “She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an

the ether with an utterly abandoned feeling, and asked the nurse right
August 13th, 17—.
“Take it back to the coach-house, John,” said Mr. Rochester coolly; “it
      silenced him; but he soon afterwards said:

flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river
tumbler of punch ready for him. Perhaps they could be happy

persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her. She had at first
has such thick lips.”
      me—but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love.”
which were here very uneven. Sometimes, indeed, they were broken or
liberty of mind: his praise and notice were more restraining than his
the finer movements of her nature found scope in discovering to the
I went over and looked at that huge incoherent failure of a house once
your tones gentle; I liked my name pronounced by your lips in a
Ma’am you’d hardly believe that I was once the owner of a great
The little woman hoped they would have a good house. She looked out at
      Little Theatre was open. Well, and so just as the carriage came

“Keep out of the way,” said Mr. Rochester, thrusting her aside: “she
perceived by a market-woman not far from the spot where the body of the
designing or a desponding expression?—that opened upon a careful


Tom laughed and turned to me.
      not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you
having coal was that it enabled a gentleman to afford the decency of
“And is that really so! Then it’s somebody wanting to see us both.

With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of
      entail. They had often attempted to do it before, but it was a
This was all the account I got from Mrs. Fairfax of her employer and

      ones. But _now_ we may be silent.”

biting the end of one of his huge brushes and frowning. “It is quite
      “You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help
numbed and covered with chilblains, as were our feet: I remember well
      last woman in the world who could make you so. Nay, were your

downstairs, in order, as I shrewdly suspected, to visit the library,
intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself
India?”
hitherto attended the schools of Geneva, but my father thought it
service.”
puppy! Open their bleared lids and look on your own accursed
Duckweed and Francis Bull. Also from New York were the Chromes and the
and then hasty addenda beneath:

the other hand, no garage man who had seen him ever came forward, and
as if a divot from a green golf-links had come sailing in at the

turned to Hallward and said, “My dear fellow, I have just remembered.”
“Is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now, sir?”
her own. But after all she did not say when or how she had seen him or
      “Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so,” said Mr.
Antinous was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will
“This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I
feel.

enclosure, where she could be seen leading him away by the outer gates,
been made from Henchard’s wheat lately. ’Tis that growed out that ye
civil rather than affectionate; and he was troubled; one more bitter


should dare to drop a kiss on that brow of rock, and on those lips so
and obscure at once, full of _argot_ and of archaisms, of technical
      kindness of the late Mr. Darcy, though she had not before known

were dancing. Five little fiddlers played as loudly as possible, and
little finger. It was a burning shame and a scandalous disgrace to act
scarcely be conceived.
covered with a thick encampment of curls; all behind was dressed

Thus they lived on in the shop overlooking the churchyard, and nothing
      “I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I
over with you I have on my mind: to-night it is too late, and I have a
county, and consequently was lost to me.

for some three minutes hang suspended in air; and for the same space of
“Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me,” said Hallward,
      Mr. Collins moreover adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin

of the time wasted, of—”
it used to be expressed, and following up his advantage thrust him
anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me.”
me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live? If I do,
      been there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it.
his mind wandered away to the glare and rattle of the public-house. It
failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the
devils have to try and catch it on their plates: 65, _catch your
when I left the house, were soon wet with dew. But I looked neither to
Elizabeth drew up silently to the head of the sofa, but with obvious
strive for it; is it likely he would waste a serious thought on this





He drew over the picture the sheet of thin paper on which I was

notice when the Scarecrow stumbled into a hole and rolled over to the
the road as far as I could see, to the right hand and the left, was all
distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat
These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you

“No,” said Dorothy, “he’s made of tin.” And she helped the Woodman up
when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow
      she was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended her.
      the most ill-judged thing in the world! How strange it must
“Much better, sir; I shall be well soon.”
arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation.

suggestion was more than she could endure. So Wilson was reduced to a
sound of the hour and scene; we might well then start when a gay voice,
she inquired and searched no further, and evidently wondered at my wish

accession of fortune, the discovery of my relations, followed in due
sleeps here: one would almost say that, if there were a ghost at
For saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch,
      respective houses; and what is to divide them? The upstart
minutes—conjectured her actions for the time being—her sitting down and
here—it is always more satisfactory to see important points written
      audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet,

them when and where they would allow me. There was a reviving pleasure
talents.
once, so forgive it. I’ll never trouble ’ee again, Elizabeth-Jane—no,
      with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a
was in somebody’s arms; the nurse held me; she was carrying me through
Leisure had not arrived there. So Elizabeth-Jane walked and read, or
      It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies
      She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in
      “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, 15_th October_.

well, with fluency and with a good accent.

      is to be done.”
      enumerating the various pleasures of the morning to anybody who
I thought too fine to be worn, except on first-rate occasions.

Father Purdon knelt down, turned towards the red speck of light and,

earth! How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being! The
      “I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his
I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this; there was a frenzy
      place.
      directed their observation towards each with an earnest though
seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever he went. He heard Sir
“Fixed the World’s Series?” I repeated.
thinking of you; and I beheld you in imagination so near me, I scarcely
faithfully and well loved in return. Then I should have asked you to

that I steadily reviewed the tale Mr. Rochester had told me. As he had
      and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father’s speech,
the Golden Cap.”

probably due to shock and sudden failure of the heart’s action.
compunction.
my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made
deposition that I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I
got up and took a turn in the room; undrew the curtain, noted a star or
defiance more definitely.
      rather than of choice—a sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to
over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred rock.
against me. If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be
      and with an expression of civil disdain accosted her:

repeat sounding phrases from books: she never offered, nor had, an
      benefit of greater importance.

possession of his bankers.
the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance
Dorothy picked them up and had the Winkies carry them back to the


      herself; and when the subject was revived the next morning, and
any other being that wore the human form.
and ere dusk fires were lit upstairs and below; the kitchen was in

wave-girt land. It was as if a band of Italian days had come from the
seaward—and distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute
“Far from that, Diana; his sole idea in proposing to me is to procure a

language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul

remembered the perfidious hints given by Mrs. Reed about my
light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small round
Rochester’s girl-bride.”
more, Harry, I feel sure you don’t either.”

“But Reed left children?—you must have cousins? Sir George Lynn was
“I adore it,” exclaimed Daisy. “The pompadour! You never told me you
terribly upset. And it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare.

saw or heard of.
“You did not act the character of a gipsy with me.”
Rochester obliged me to go to a certain silk warehouse: there I was
and my rushing anxiously up the front steps was the first thing that



upon her bed with pen and paper, and at her request she was left alone.
“In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
chairs. The candle, whose ray had been my beacon, burnt on the table;
a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I merely remarked that they


confused. They were careless people, Tom and Daisy—they smashed up
      dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s clothes on purpose to pass for

      warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had
to blast the budding attentions she had won from Donald Farfrae, was
And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think
sleep till I had spoken to you.”
rolling up her music nervously, she escaped from the room. The most
they appeared, all with plain locks combed from their faces, not a curl
ears sticking up through the hole, for the strong pressure of the air
absolute rose. Doesn’t he?” She turned to Miss Baker for confirmation:
rest at night. The teachers were fully occupied with packing up and
      beginning the subject.

      vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the
over. He will be glad to give you some.”
I have alluded to Mr. Thackeray, because to him—if he will accept the
      insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their
in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished.
easy money in the vicinity and convinced that it was theirs for a few
inquire of a boy in what quarter Mr. Henchard could be found. He


      It was the last of the regiment’s stay in Meryton, and all the
funeral rites. Eliza generally took no more notice of her sister’s
      engagements. Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself
      till the latter walked away from her, and making with his usual
away if it was a boy or a girl. She told me it was a girl, and so I
      His character sunk on every review of it; and as a punishment for
Sandy Macfarlane, who started to America to try his fortune, and he was
grass coming from that direction also.

“That will be a hard climb,” said the Scarecrow, “but we must get over
      portion of her notice when service is over. I have scarcely any
Thus engaged, he appeared, sitting in his own recess, quiet and
also been fortunate enough to secure some of the police contracts and
happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears.
strength. Rise, Miss Eyre: leave me; the play is played out’.”
      same feelings.”
perfume on his handkerchief out of a large, gold-topped bottle that
a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the green lacquer leaves of the ivy,

      to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried
Mr. Henchard was not in the house, but in the store-yard. She was
doubt but it will bear the weight of your human weakness.”
I couldn’t sleep all night; a foghorn was groaning incessantly on the
“Do you say the man is an acquaintance of Mr. Farfrae’s?” observed Mrs.


moments’ hesitation.
that a moment’s mutiny had already rendered me liable to strange
      towards one of the windows.
      believed.
      imaginary; and the possibility of her deserving her mother’s
leggings yellow as marigolds, corduroys immaculate as new flax, and a
      which she had yesterday witnessed however temporary its existence
Mr. Rochester had given me but one week’s leave of absence: yet a month
      moving that way; and, fearful of its being Mr. Darcy, she was
inclinations to the bare thought of marriage. No one would take me for
glossiest curls I ever saw. She was dressed in pure white; an
That kind master, who could not sleep now, was waiting with impatience

to some former haunt on the Continent. And what opiate for his severe
      reply produced, was such as he had probably never felt before;
like to go back to Kansas.”
not so bad as folk make out perhaps. And dammy, a man must be a fool to
dash of pity for the tastes of any one who could care to give his mind
“Goodbye,” I called. “I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby.”
Gatsby’s enormous house, so I stared at it, like Kant at his church
“Who or what speaks?” I asked, terrified at the unexpected sound, and
understand. We’d sit for hours—”
“Is that what he rang for?” I asked.
“Who?” he demanded rudely.
him better than nice legal knowledge in despatching such simple
dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble,
something turns up for the better.’ I now know you are all right, and

or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which
placard, “Good Furmity Sold Hear.” The man mentally weighed the two
letting myself down to take your name after such a scandal. But I knew
“Hell of a note, isn’t it? Get my wire?”
“Thank you very much, Mr Hendrick,” said Mr Holohan, “you’ll see it in,
Scarecrow said, “Oh, my!”
any foot-marks been found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have
      “As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth very warmly. “I
sacrilege, is not banished. My mother was dead, but we had still

wreck its fairness. But he would not sin. The picture, changed or

      women. I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_.”
a man now. I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. I am
to remedy the injury?

He handed her over as if she had been a lapdog. “I’ll send her to
at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. “These people! You have to
      her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever she

endured.
      recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley, and
great deal of lacing, but seemed never to get any. Instead of sighing
there over a fallen fragment of cornice. Wrapped up in a shawl, I still
forty-three years, who was killed at Sydney Parade Station yesterday
Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every
a secret from you till now. I hope you will understand why; I think you
“Yes.”
the south path which descended over the _débris_ of the former dens. In
      could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and
skellintons—leastwise respectable skellintons—to be varnished for
was not so well educated or refined as the second, and that she had
take her back to Gateshead, I mounted the vehicle which was to bear me
“Now,” said Henchard, with the blaze of satisfaction that he always




deprived myself of rest and health. I had desired it with an ardour
      subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than

northern pole.
      Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her party. Their table was




security, a feeling that a truce was established between the present hour
      be in my power to assure him that her ladyship was quite well
holes. Leaves from the fence had been blown into the corners of the
awful vengeance for my present conduct at some period fast coming. I
greater than her fear of the dark, so she never came near when Dorothy
      second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas. Her
heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and
disproportionate almost to his length of limb. I am sure most people
banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different
      that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of

      feeling of remorse. He even looked at her with a smile of

“Get some help, then! Here, I’ll come with you. We’ll see what a few
Ignatius Gallaher made a catholic gesture with his right arm.
      voice, Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold enquiry
fear and little awe. Mr. Rochester came thrice to my door in the course
      barouche-box, there will be very good room for one of you—and
      his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her

him, but tell your story and ask him to help you. Good-bye, my dear.”
and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would
But he found that a traveller’s life is one that includes much pain
      reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till he did,
Again, as he kissed me, painful thoughts darkened his aspect.
my little friend, are you not?”


made up her mind.
not satisfy my own desires. They were for ever ardent and craving; still
“In about a month I hope to be a bridegroom,” continued Mr. Rochester;

      The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to
child. “Dear mountains! my own beautiful lake! how do you welcome your

sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness. Mingled with
take the crust without the crumb of the bargain, in other words, the
charnel-houses. My attention was fixed upon every object the most

had lived happily until about two years ago when his wife began to be
cultivated. For these there is hope. They are the elect to whom
directions and stood among the idlers.
liberty; for liberty I gasped; for liberty I uttered a prayer; it


and aloud.
“When you go in,” said I, “tell your master that a person wishes to
Here two men entered the room. One of them was a very fat man whose
      really is. Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we
have kept my oath; and though, Farfrae, I am sometimes that dry in the
the next day, only as an endless drill of police and photographers and
“The persons are here, Monsieur.”
revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I
to the banisters.
the notion that she was about to be removed to Northumberland, to her
a cuirass, and one a lady with powdered hair and a pearl necklace), at
Glynn’s item. The poor lady sang _Killarney_ in a bodiless gasping
      “Yet it is hard,” she sometimes thought, “that this poor man
      remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen better. Mr. Collins
in the boxes, they demanded St. John. At this moment he advanced from
It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour
“He tells me so.”
countenance ageing prematurely from extreme sorrow. She selected—as
I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an hour.”
could clap no more, he stood up suddenly and hurried across the room to
      was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and, when

stairs by Mr. Rochester.
At the corner of Hume Street a young woman was standing. She wore a
children’s brains, but strangely impressive. The words in these


almost wicked to talk so. I am disposed to be as content as a queen,

degenerate from man to fiend? No; I cannot believe that: I hold another
“Oh, the obvious consolation. Taking some one else’s admirer when one
pleasure—I was now alone. In the university whither I was going I

it, the cymbals’ song of it … High in a white palace the king’s
      respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of
I have certain tastes and feelings in common with him. I must, then,
visits, as he generally did not come back till late at night.
What was youth at best? A green, an unripe time, a time of shallow
horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me.”
      the worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any
      prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she

nations of the earth. I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous
progress. It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain
“What, Abel Whittle; is it that ye are heere?” said Farfrae.
surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed
frivolous and childish kind; I could not digest or comprehend the
      shall never forget: ‘had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike
what thoughts I have in my head. Everything in life seems unreal.”
starred the window-panes at remote distances: the sunlight would flap
dependent upon indoor resources. But there were certain early winter
  Chapter 52
footpath, and swinging his arms to warm himself.
bushrangers were to attack them three times, and be defeated with
“Don’t trouble yourself to give her a character,” returned Mr.

stirred; my eye was instantly drawn to his movements; he only took out
house. Presently the words Jamaica, Kingston, Spanish Town, indicated
evidently bent on striking them as something very dashing and daring
I was indignant for a moment; but remembering that anger was out of the


your birth.”
bitter voice. “I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an
Lenehan walked as far as the Shelbourne Hotel where he halted and
north gap, or public gateway. They met in the middle of the arena.
      could regard with any complacency. His anxiety for Jane was

“Well, I’ll try,” said the Stork, “but if I find he is too heavy to
      moment.
penetrate very near a Mighty Spirit; and my soul rushed out in
were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked
double life.
no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for their softness
“This is hypochondria, Jane. You have been over-excited, or
anybody will see; and her wishes and ways will all be as nothing!”

almost unnecessary the light of the candle on the table): as he sat
      “That is all settled;” repeated the other, as she ran into her
      must not all expect Jane’s good fortune.”
few thoughts framed, and no actions performed. I knew I was in a small
for a year or two. Not a soul in the town need know how you’ve helped

      prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the Lakes was now

took the remains of my machine-gun battalion so far forward that there
“Well—heh, heh—it may be we can do that, and not a man among us that
fatally this one circumstance weighs against me, but I have no power of

      laugh, that it was a great while since she had been there.
the river. We pleased ourselves with the spectacle of Dublin’s
Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable
maybe I’d better sell it somewhere else after all.”
cap on the top of the Wellington Monument. How much more pleasant it
grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly
dependency, I agree heartily.”
for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.”
      “Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth,
is to fill it with hot air. Hot air isn’t as good as gas, for if the
“And what, sir,” I asked, while he paused, “did you do when you had
      room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through
old resident in this neighbourhood, sir, and I never heard of a Mrs.
“Oh, yes.” She looked at me absently. “Listen, Nick; let me tell you
“Deceit is, indeed, a sad fault in a child,” said Mr. Brocklehurst; “it
extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self. Besides,
      Netherfield ball. He joined them on their entering the town, and
and Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the
      however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my
for a song? Shall I say forty shillings? ’Tis a very promising
“Good-night, Jane,” he replied calmly.
“I cannot see my prospects clearly to-night, sir; and I hardly know
      Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we
      “And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems an hopeless
Our eyes lifted over the rose-beds and the hot lawn and the weedy
the town-pump that Donald and Lucetta were incipient lovers. More than
The dilatory limousine came rolling up the drive.
the lad was his own creation. He had made him premature. That was

Mr Kernan changed the subject at once.

and much wealth, I should have made it as hard for you to leave me, as
want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like
employed myself in dividing the ripe from the unripe; I carried them
      “This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go


The Search for the Wicked Witch
wish to have some strength and some vigour returned to me as soon as I
eye, before I attempted to embody them, they were striking; but my hand


No! No! No! It was impossible. Her hands clutched the iron in frenzy.


window behind him.


attended to. She bought a dozen of mixed penny cakes, and at last came
occurrences never took kindly to the soil of the ruin, would be a
colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed. The scarlet
doorpost.
embarrassment was gone. Daisy’s face was smeared with tears, and when
“Did we interrupt your exercise?” inquired Daisy politely.
The Lion climbed the ladder next, and the Tin Woodman came last; but
each one quiet kiss, said in a low tone a few words of welcome, stood a



my benefactress; if so, a benefactress is a disagreeable thing.”


been insensible during my seeming torpor—and I owe to their

      the present fashions from Jane, who sat some way below her, and,

“To speak truth, sir, I don’t understand you at all: I cannot keep up

      seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with
breakfast?” During the meal she was quiet and cool: but I could not
going to leave me.” He looked towards Donald, who had come near. “Mr.
After this they sat down beside the Lion until he should awaken; and

      In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who
rain, she flitted out of the room, leaving a faint odour of
and employer’s customers. There was, it seemed to the younger man, room
congratulations from shyness, and all that.”
Now go, and do not ask to see me again until you have done your task.”
Street. In a few minutes business at Casterbridge was ended for the
Toto did not like it. He ran about the room, now here, now there,

was high and latticed; both it and the long gallery into which the
      she would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of
Worn out with this torture of thought, I rose to my knees. Night was
and jests was proceeding when Sam returned.
      a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_ might have prevented it! _I_
The preacher turned back each wide sleeve of his surplice with an
us again; I will go to the vast wilds of South America. My food is not
Here ensued a pause, filled up by the producing and lighting of a
“If it were not such a very wild night,” he said, “I would send Hannah
hay-barns, into which tons of fodder, all in trusses, were being packed

in sweet—That will do. I think I rave in a kind of exquisite delirium.

“That was why she was brought up in ignorance of you. I could not bear
making other necessary preparations for the departure of those girls
“It can never be, sir; it does not sound likely. Human beings never
“About a quarter of a mile down the road.”
Farfrae, willing to humour Henchard, though quite uninterested, and
rougher than it.
them; sometimes they forgive them.
the retreat of bats and owls. I thought that of all the stately front

      warmth, and softened its impropriety of expression.
Only England could have produced him, and he always said that the
      _your_ ball,” she added, “I shall insist on their giving one
“I am not deceitful: if I were, I should say I loved _you;_ but I
heart disease.”
Of ocean-surges green.



“I’ve been having lunch with Mr. Gatsby.”
“She’s sending in the younger ones first as soon as this waltz is over


“I am sorry to grieve you,” pursued the widow; “but you are so young,
a smile played about his lips. The peril was over. He was safe for the
bed, Miss Miller. Is this the first time you have left your parents to
      their arrival; when they entered the passage she was there to
entreated him to accompany her home.
“Such a sight! O, he’ll do for himself one day and that’s the holy alls
tried to show by my expression that I expected no affection.
to Kansas, and if he did she was willing to forgive him everything.
answered.
for red blood, as other men have for red wine—the son of the Fiend, as

“Generally thought? But what do _you_ think?”
returned to his papers and his silence.
must not be sexual intercourse and friendship between man and woman is
      _he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the Netherfield
dominions.”
had been her favourite but she liked Harry too. Her father was becoming
      Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of wonder. Elizabeth said
Dorian. You have never looked more charming than you do to-night. You
gave her a string of pearls valued at three hundred and fifty thousand
watching the sad fate of her comrades and thinking it would soon be her
“She’s me—she’s me—even to the parasol—my green parasol!” cried Lucetta
has pronounced it no rarity—even the reverse, indeed, and without them
conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.
      personage than to herself. They had long wished to see him. The
happened in my absence:—nothing, probably, of consequence; but, in

things I read surpassed my understanding and experience. I had a very


least surprise. “When will everything be sent up?” he said to the
the club for days.”
was rapid. My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and

substantiality of a man.
    a day or two. Till then, farewell.—Yours,

scrambled eggs and a plate of nice white bread, and enjoyed her meal.

“I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is
doubts and portents, and dark conjectures. This was when I chanced to
front of the Royal carriage, sanded; and into this space a man stepped
      converse with her, he might have better success. He stood by her,
      different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
of raised plasterwork, and its brickdust felt carpet strewn with silk,
it so good that he made a note of the shop mentally. When he had eaten
      “Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more
the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose hands seem
though she would fain have withdrawn it. “Dear Lucetta, I have been
“I haven’t seen any Committee,” said Mrs Kearney angrily. “My daughter
The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded, but Gatsby was not
“Psalms are not interesting,” I remarked.
“It is nothing to me. I don’t require you,” said Campbell coldly.


He’s just an ordinary knockabout like you and me. He’s fond of his
      Elizabeth’s sake, he assisted him further in his profession.


it.
sitting on a chair by the bedside, and sewing rings to new curtains.
      of Mr. Darcy’s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of
leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow

her, for she could no longer conceal from herself the cause. At length
reposed. I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their
which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them. You already know
“I know you will laugh at me,” he replied, “but I really can’t exhibit
rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the
significant; it may tacitly have said to her that he bought her back

pupils of their eyes with the blazing regard which formerly had made
“I am sent to tell you, sir,” she innocently went on, “that a distant
broken by reply? Not, perhaps, once in a hundred years. And the

years of age. He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of
my waist. He seemed to devour me with his flaming glance: physically, I
and lashes which hid his bent eyes.

      advantage of _some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as
it. It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. Where
afternoon, when he chanced to meet me and Adèle in the grounds: and
“I can tell you, Harry. It is not a story I could tell to any one else.
... the——”
found out soon after.
At the last moment of leaving Port-Bredy, Farfrae, like John Gilpin,
worse. Susan, Farfrae, Lucetta, Elizabeth—all had gone from him, one
were simply alluding to some fact that everybody knew, and at times he
I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe—and well advanced
the greatest practical advantage. Twice I actually hired myself as an
tightening fingers away. In a second he heard the click of a revolver,
      she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offer to
out of it and disposed for full holiday.”
“What was the name of the woman?” asked Mrs. McKee.

thing. It exhibited itself as the top of an open down, bounded on one
showed their sense of the occasion by advancing their customary eleven
      particular resentment by his having slighted one of her
it the Emerald City; and to make the name fit better I put green

“I will try to be there, Harry,” he said, leaving the room. As he drove


from him, I could have sworn he was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced

ineradicable ambition; discriminate the Christian from the man:
stood at his side.
    God is a friend to the poor orphan child.”

Something of daylight still lingered, and the moon was waxing bright: I
and came to a secluded room where one of the stewards was uncorking
      was to be happy. But,” she continued, recollecting herself, “as
when the servants ought to have done it; and I said I was leery;—and he
to share their intercourse. I had unchained an enemy among them whose

ironies now. He quickened the horse’s pace, and had soon risen into the
      the coachman had before set down his fare, he determined to make
influences were at work within him. Yet they seemed to him to have come
      were nearly worn out before the _tête-à-tête_ was over.
      of showing it without her husband’s help. It was rather small,
enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the reason why
ottomans: some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books:
hour’s rest; his life would be a hell to him. He had made a proper fool
life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who
again; but when she thought it all over she was glad she had not gone
stooped to take off my shoes, a cautious hand tapped low at the door.
life; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself on sweet

“I suppose not,” said Dorothy.
ocean and the abounding blessed isles.
Good heavens, my dear boy, don’t look so tragic! The secret of
“Yes, madame.”

      of letters was the grand object of every morning’s impatience.
      He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his
should have employment of my dear husband; but in common fairness treat
time, Mr. Gatsby. Excuse me!”
      but little. Whilst wandering on in this slow manner, they were
cotton-white one winter afternoon for no good reason at all.
I avail myself of the opportunity which a third edition of “Jane Eyre”

“murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife.
“All right,” broke in Tom quickly, “I’m perfectly willing to go to
“Thornfield? I don’t know, ma’am; I’ll inquire at the bar.” He
like the schoolroom, I saw it was very long. To-night I was to be Miss

little drops of rain hung at the brim of his hat and the collar of his

broad, well-filled shirt-front, the face whose expression always
“Now he’s dead,” I said after a moment. “You were his closest friend,
“I am on the side of the Trojans. They fought for a woman.”
buy the things. She would be there before eight. She took out her purse
them; and I was not surprised when he told me that the fathers of the
“I am charmed, my love, quite charmed,” said Lord Henry, elevating his
the newspaper woman, played Madame de Maintenon to his weakness and
You are killing me now.”
      “Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd
During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room,
the park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at every one who
“Ah! Bring me a candle will you Leah?”
believed me.”
yesterday, as I thought, for the last time. I then sat down: I felt

looked the very model of an Eastern emir, an agent or a victim of the

      from your affection for ever, and leave her to reap the fruits of
nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has
from the room: I ushered him into the library, and then I went
to this transaction with Henchard, he examined the package. The pen and


atoms on crag points, or lifted up and borne on by some master-wave
Genius is said to be self-conscious. I cannot tell whether Miss Ingram
whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to
“I am glad I happened to be awake,” I said: and then I was going.
      Darcy had been standing near enough for her to overhear a

experienced no suffering from estrangement—no yearning after

you will not do so now, will you, Michael? for it is too late to
“I don’t know the gentlemen here. I have scarcely interchanged a

and her words and gestures were like fingers running upon the wires.
high over the city our line of yellow windows must have contributed

calve?”
mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game, and the herds of
      the visit.
He waited, looking at me with suppressed eagerness.
be a wee bit of envy; but I cannet see a reason for the whole intensity

A little solace came at tea-time, in the shape of a double ration of
in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer

once more.”
      aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any
      are sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if she has the
its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as
“Oh,” said Henchard absently. “Which house is that?”
show him energies he has not yet seen, resources he has never
me.”
      Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and,

      I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his

The sound of the dressing-bell dispersed the party. It was not till
tip of the bass-viol bow.
my eyes filled again.
full length. She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
introduced her still exhibited the remnants of the lavish breakfast
is quite right. I did not think so at first, but I admit it now. The
Scarecrow.”
calculated to endure variations of climate than many more robust.”
such as you enjoy!”
the lowest fringe of the Mariner’s party touched the crest of Peter’s
prodigal fulness. He would not rest satisfied till Farfrae had written
“Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from
christening. She was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, Margaret

foot long; but its head was joined to the pudgy body by a neck as
Who would think that the Evil One had already found a servant and agent
      and fancied liberal!
my dear Basil, he is a Narcissus, and you—well, of course you have an
      in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked

policeman going his rounds and flashing the long beam of his lantern on

      “Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elizabeth, darting from her
presbyterian nymphs on the ceiling. “But I like across the street
The child awoke and began to cry. He turned from the page and tried to
inseparable. Surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not
gathered round me and bade me be at peace.
corn and in hay, but I was brought up as a hay-trusser simply, and hay
had been so low and hurried that not a word had been lost of the

on with _his_ sister he’d bloody well put his teeth down his throat, so
if it were a dream. I could not be certain of the reality till I had

yourself. If I lived with you as you desire, I should then be your
      “Oh well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come.
this fine evening as a mosaic-work of subdued reds, browns, greys, and

      “How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong
strangely. Then, suddenly raising herself on tiptoe and resting her
dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in

three o’clock; the church bell tolled as I passed under the belfry: the
daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that
who, four hours earlier, had enticed Farfrae into a deadly wrestle
Mr. Eshton argue on politics; their wives listen. The two proud
Elizabeth-Jane was passing the King’s Arms, when she saw people
my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon
I nodded.

appreciated fully the chain of national circumstances which had
he spoke was humble and indifferent.

with a plate of cold fried chicken between them, and two bottles of
“Yes, and Miss Adèle; they are in the dining-room, and John is gone for
“No. I will retain my post of mistress till you get a substitute.”
ale. He was talking intently across the table at her, and in his
‘flying away home.’ I wish to remind you that it was you who first said
false ideals, of our age. Live! Live the wonderful life that is in you!
      that the business had been compromised accordingly.”

religion is _the_ religion, the old, original faith.”
      Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr.
dirty. He lifted up the counter and, passing by the clients, went out

cried. “I must go. I have to call for my husband at the club, to take
the only daughter of the sole rich man in my parish—Mr. Oliver, the
belle passion,’ and I promise you the public soon had the benefit of
      agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how

up; and if any one asks me how I liked you, and how you treated me, I
was allowed him literally. He came out of the pawn-office joyfully,
which effaced the soft wave-wanderings; as, in a picture, the solid
“Not much,” he said indifferently. “All safe inside?”
had no ‘brass’ and no house. Some of the best people that ever lived
      always of one mind.”
which nobody feels but yourself, than to commit a hasty action whose
where all his money comes from.”
“O, that thing is it.... Sure, that’s old now.”
      manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride
effrontery had wrought in her disappeared with the quiet disappearance
“You shall!—you must!”
they can command the thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even
him, myself unseen, and alas! to him invisible. It was a sudden
against; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in
could not turn, nor retrace one step. God must have led me on. As to my

      makes love to us all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even
      longer. I pity, though I cannot help blaming her. She was very

bonnet, and the countenance of a stout old lady beamed down into the
The tremors in Susan Henchard’s tone might have led any person but one

“Why, what was wonderful about Johnny?” asked Mr Browne.
the Land of the West, and he did not wish to meet them again.
“I think so too, Miss. Bessie said she was sure you would not refuse:

take out part of our accommodation by helping?” she asked of the
      performed her duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or

      “Not, perhaps, of neglecting his own interest; but of every other
disordered life, the very vileness of thief and outcast, were more
him on the table and a bloody big spoon like a shovel. He takes up a


exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that filled
“Did you speak, my own?”
      young lady like yourself.” And with a low bow he left her to

Mariners, who had been represented by the artist as persons of two
“Let me try it first,” said the Scarecrow, “for it doesn’t hurt me to
that might be. At length he went back to the door of the dining-room,
with others.”
But the rest offended her—and inarguably because it wasn’t a gesture
neckerchief like a flower-garden. Now he wore the remains of an old
Adèle seconded the request with an ardour that reminded me how precious

Here, come in, bonny wanderer!”
elder brother returns to us. My uncle is not pleased with the idea of
my life. See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how rich
There was great rejoicing among the yellow Winkies, for they had been
at Lowood, they seemed to offer an abundant harvest of entertainment
He began to puff at his pipe, no doubt arranging his opinion in his
      “But is there not danger of Lady Catherine’s disapprobation here,
“Everybody smoked all through lunch.”
commonplace vulgar death attacked his stomach. Not merely had she

there to see you?”

he said; and the Scarecrow agreed with him. So they kept walking until
      she considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister
      them.”
Upon my heart and soul, if ever I should be left in a position to carry
Clarence Endive was from East Egg, as I remember. He came only once,
magnificent figure of Miss Ingram, clad in white, a long veil on her

      she amused herself.
Look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the
“Of course: that was all settled before.”
We drank in long, greedy swallows.

and cherry trees on one side, and a border on the other full of all
      had heard of its inhabitants.

      family that she had no disinclination for it.
more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be
broken her rule against drinking that night, for when she arrived she
“I am Oz, the Great and Terrible,” said the little man, in a trembling
flower bed as soon as you can. We will bring the little girl with us,
corner. She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into a
Nights ranged just above. The inanimate objects were not changed; but
“Well, what night shall we go?”

plank without hesitation, and seemed to see nothing odd in the transit.
never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. Women represent


should not say the greatest romance of your life. You should say the
or in any way recovered from the effect of his disclosure, he

a few minutes the investigators went out, and joining those of their
she was still a creature of the present. To satisfy his conscience
encountered, “Who is coming to live at the Hall?”
near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast. He turned on
others.
last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for
“I don’t wish to, if she promises,” said Henchard.

fiery disdain.
bar the magic-lantern business.”
“Ah! a charitable concern. How long were you there?”
something about what had passed between me and Mrs. Reed, but on second
locked) open slowly, and give passage to the form of Grace Poole, in
were engaged in any high undertaking or design, fraught with extensive
was one of those excitements which, when they move a country town,
“It’d be more discreet to go to Europe.”
tender and true.”
fierce in its strength. “Now you are my friend!” he exclaimed. “Come



wife; but the longer I considered the position, education, &c., of the
conceiving respecting Grace Poole; it disgusted me. I compared myself

“And you will stay with me?”
that. Do you see?”
character.
hopelessly.
myself to-night. I should like to be somebody else.”
“Shall I leave the things here, sir?” he asked Campbell.
because remote from the nursery and kitchen; solemn, because it was
few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the
stated that the deceased had two lower ribs fractured and had sustained
be fine and noble. To spiritualize one’s age—that is something worth
him not the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy. He was pleased by

      attempt at a compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more

“No,” said Mr Kernan. “I think I caught a cold on the car. There’s
      overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who
The Wonderful City of Oz

apostle? Rosamond a missionary’s wife? No!”
sacrifice she had made of her life. He would not think any more of what
body should get the better of their skill, the further step had been

kitchen, where John now sat by a good fire. I explained to them, in few


“Too much noise, Grace,” said Mrs. Fairfax. “Remember directions!”
unwisdom, having picked over the sample of an enormous quantity of
notwithstanding her professed indifference, attached undue importance
no longer as a great personage, but as a thriving man of business—was
trayful of arrowroot biscuits. At four o’clock he was set free. He
She set down the tray, spread his supper, and went away without a word.
      fault well. I really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me.”

      the family.
abandon your scheme of marriage—forget it.”

been roused to speak so unguardedly. You have introduced a topic on
haven’t many of them, thank God! but we have a few.... He’s an
      woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more
      “I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was
He begged her pardon for addressing her. But he had heard that Mr.

      have you so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope
“Oh, mention it! If I storm, you have the art of weeping.”
to torment you with the hideous associations and recollections of
that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was. Or was it
      I told him of all that had occurred to make my former


To this house I came just ere dark on an evening marked by the
      quartered in the North. It is an advantage to have it so far from
laughs in that way. She is a singular person.”
      to have occasioned pain to anyone. It has been most unconsciously



      “I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away
of the towel in the water-jug and refreshed her eyes with the cool
“He won’t be too hard on us, Tom,” said Mr Power persuasively.

usual; but the sorrow they had to struggle against was one that could
which the foliage screened from the upper parts. Beneath these
We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowd when we were still
enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. I tried to conceal this
will accompany him: it surprises me that he has already made so
“No, sir, I solemnly assure you to the contrary. The shape standing

      his happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and
described—as a vehement gloomy being who had quitted the ways of vulgar

accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the
      though rather longer, were much too full of lines under the words
there.”
you like it or not,” and he walked boldly forward.
packed the abodes of the burghers.
is to be pitied, too, Abbot.”

deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and
rested very well indeed.
quivering lip in whose movement two passions shared.

      they met. Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more
      in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he
      distinction of rank preserved.”
you on your wedding-night_,” I should regard the threatened fate as
the idea of copying from so perfect and radiant a model. She had then
Jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of
Elizabeth reflected. “I’ll think of it, mother,” she answered.
counterfeit sentiment you offer: yes, St. John, and I scorn you when
“O, now, Mr Browne, I’m sure the doctor never ordered anything of the
interspace of years was unperceived; and the black spot of his youth
employment you propose to yourself as a substitute for the one you are
strap a rush basket, from which protruded at one end the crutch of a
evenings, when she chanced to be in good humour; and when, having
her away with some contumelious epithet if she happened to approach
      you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford.
piled in vases: both chambers and saloons looked as fresh and bright as
embers when they were nearly extinguished. When night came again I
One afternoon, however, I got leave to stay at home, because I really
that. Besides, there is that peculiar voice of hers, so animating and
into the house. Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in
I came in she jumped up and began wiping at it with her handkerchief

she wished to allure—to witness _this_, was to be at once under
the sleeper, who was obviously no tramp, stay where he was, and his
father’s death; but they did so like Marsh End and Morton, and all
yours always,

After breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the garden
“But under such circumstances, what could one do?” returned Mason. “Oh,
earthly elements. Whither will that spirit—now struggling to quit its
“Biloxi?” He concentrated with an effort. “I didn’t know him. He was a
than he could endure. His health declined; he became morbidly
cause.” After some broken words which Henchard lost she added, “Are you
educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in
Explanation! You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain? If
firmness. “For I thought it probable—possible—that I might marry Mr.

      contrariety of emotion they excited. Her feelings as she read
bull. “That is, broken the news of our marriage to my dear
then?”
killed himself by jumping in front of a subway train in Times Square.
there was quite a talk about his purchases among his neighbours the
offered to hope, seemed all astir. I cannot precisely define what they
and greet us.
are an ogre. Let me go, or I will tell my papa.’
“The Miss Reeds could not play as well!” said she exultingly. “I always
“It’s like everything else in this world,” he said. “You get some bad
you drive fast.”
help her into the basket, when, crack! went the ropes, and the balloon
parson; and the girls, as soon as they left school, would seek places


and discoloured face, and heard her strangely altered voice. I mused on
Casterbridge announced old Rome in every street, alley, and precinct.
the ear, crushing the man’s head down on the table and stabbing again

      On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming
and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong glass.”
      Mr. Darcy’s letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style;
car.”
“Do you, sir, feel calm and happy?”

      greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of
      “Yes. It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give


vague ideas on the subject narrowed themselves down to these: Henchard

      complete. The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness

      come to a right way of thinking. Their mutual affection will
which had also been stuffed with straw. On the feet were some old boots
“Aunt,” she repeated. “Who calls me aunt? You are not one of the
glanced it through. Thereupon it was curious to note an unexpected
not be mistimed, wherein a judicious instructor would take the
of Longways and other of Farfrae’s men to get him out of the way for
“Of course not—it stands to reason,” said Buzzford. “’Tis barren
“And then I should get no brains,” said the Scarecrow.
      reproach prevented his feeling any regret.
beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where they
good.”
preparing some iron blow of contradiction, or forging a fresh chain to
      look, which I do not like at all; and in her air altogether there
      Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of
roared with a mighty roar: “We will!”
in the respective stack-yards, before bringing it away, the hay bought
had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer. The servant
ought not to say about another.”
This address in the presence of the public, his run upstairs and the
      “How can you contrive to write so even?”
      With assumed tranquillity he then replied: “I have no wish of

covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
the place they sought. There were high banked hedges to the coach-road



manner was so desirous, so anxious, that the girl decided there should
work,” continued the widow; “not altogether unobjectionable in some

“I wish he had been.”
      veracity.
the year and then miss it.”
As I neither answered nor raised my eyes Mahony exclaimed again:


rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me. Here also we
      “Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?”
“The sun has dried up all the rain-drops, sir. The breeze is still: it
corner of George’s Street he met two friends of his and stopped to
“Then,” she said at last, “you will not be able to come to my wedding;
seen me and know little of me. I am full of fears, for if I fail
“Glinda is a Good Witch, isn’t she?” asked the child.

      the question was asked by her uncle; and she turned away with
Having toned her feelings and arranged words on her lips for Mr.


      still loves me, and we are engaged.”
laughter.
Daisy tumbled short of his dreams—not through her own fault, but
      long a secret. Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs.
“Rise, my poor girl,” said Elizabeth; “why do you kneel,
with wine or not, I am not sure; but I think it very probable. He was,
------------------------------------------------------------------------
pool. He stopped at the garage for a pneumatic mattress that had
petrified under the influence of a hard frost.
      Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence
build. He might possibly have passed by without stopping at all, or at
Only the negro and I were near enough to hear what he said, but the
The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch
“Yes, sir.”

just come out from his early breakfast, and there was not another soul
“I was thinking, sir, that very few masters would trouble themselves to
now what did you learn at Lowood? Can you play?”
of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors had
of the sun towards the upper end of town, its rays taking the street
      “Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say. You know my
than _he_ was! I’ll do anything, if you will only look upon me as your
“I ’an’t, ’an,” he answered, “’y ’ongue is hurt.”
entered, transformed as her guardian had predicted. A dress of
“Yes. I heard her.”
enough for a carpet. In answer to my inquiries after the use of this
suddenly upon the floor.
he replied, in his quick way—‘Nonsense! If she objects, tell her it is
Helen Burns, I was struck with wonder.


      ladies; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing,

Ignatius Gallaher produced his cigar-case. The two friends lit their
      from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards _him_
Scarecrow had done.
For some minutes no one spoke. Diana then turned to me.
however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more
      disadvantage in Hertfordshire—and, give me leave to say, very
skill, greater in this one point than theirs, surprised and charmed
interest in his new friend the Scotchman was now eclipsed by this
sinister contrast between them. My house was at the very tip of the
tried to go nearer, the heat was so intense that it singed his
“Well,” said he, “what are you musing about? What does that grave smile

threshold. He was taking off my shawl in the hall, and shaking the
near. And the Ismays and the Chrysties (or rather Hubert Auerbach and
longer he took leave of her regretfully.
person. Sit down.”
myself between it and him. He looked rather embarrassed.
through the town on my way westward, not knowing Elizabeth lived here.
her like he used to go for Harry and Ernest, because she was a girl;
      housekeeper coming towards them, and, concluding that she came to
“Is it her Mr. Bates has been to see?”
into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing.
      produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general

dying words—her faith—her doctrine of the equality of disembodied
steaming arms. They settled down before their huge mugs which the cook
my perceptions, indicated elements within either restless, or hard, or
 VI
which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot
the sight of your detested form.”
“Can there be life here?” I asked.
while.”
has no knife now, I suppose, and I’m on my guard.”
ornamental lettering, and was laid on with the best gold-leaf and
questioned: I could give no answer but what would sound incredible and

“Elizabeth Lavenza.
“Where, Jane? To Ireland?”
(apostrophising Adèle), “who perched you up in the window to give false
where might be effectually compassed what, from policy or want of
      not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley’s
I regained my couch, but never thought of sleep. Till morning dawned I
Christmas week: we took to no settled employment, but spent it in a
child. He remembered with what callousness he had watched her. Why had
“All those top-knots must be cut off.”
force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to
      encouraging. There is one point on which I want your advice. I
trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine.”
inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled
only which had led him to address her so softly.
of the Coloured Empires by this man Goddard?”
add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the depths
that of a poor relation deputed to hunt up a rich one. The front doors
The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily
some minutes, asked him, “If his plans were yet unchanged.”
“I did, old sport,” he said automatically, “but I lost most of it in
“I know it,” returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip

insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.


is useless grieving. Jane, leave me: go and marry Rivers.”
and on these Aunt Julia and the caretaker were straightening and


Henchard felt like Saul at his reception by Samuel; he remained in
I sat up in bed by way of arousing this said brain: it was a chilly
comfortless? Will I not guard, and cherish, and solace her? Is there
can get the Scarecrow’s clothes.”
despite his reserve, had the daring to make on his confidence.
ere the bell announced bedtime! no delay could be admitted; Miss Temple
things. She made Mary collect the crusts and pieces of broken bread to
quenched now; I will fetch you a candle.”
flowers is killing us all. I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open, and
and nodding to Lady Ruxton. “You must come and dine with me soon again.
“A chap. I don’t know his name. Damn it now, what’s his name? Little
advanced; then paused by the crib side: my hand was on the curtain, but
thin coat. It was a body capable of enormous leverage—a cruel body.
sympathetic communion passing between you and them as if they were





 Chapter V. The Rescue of the Tin Woodman


beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within
The Scarecrow went sorrowfully back to his friends and told them what
     To befoul and smear the exalted name

underhand that get on in these times!”
“I know something of Mr. Lloyd; I shall write to him; if his reply
in action. But he was not now the Henchard of former days. He schooled
beings. Alas! I prophesied truly, and failed only in one single
existed between him and the picture might cease. It had changed in
and boundless seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and
the Great Oz how to get back to Kansas again.”
the cheaper parts of the hall made fun of her high wailing notes. The
so that, screened by the curtain, I could see without being seen.
Furlong. Take them in, Julia, with Miss Daly and Miss Power.”
also gave his face a harsh character; but there was no harshness in the
promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the fulfilment of which

dipped their pipe-stems in their ale to moisten them, nor pushed the
What was I to do? Where to go? Oh, intolerable questions, when I could
      The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst and
probation; and with the best success. He was kept, to be sure, rather
      Charles most capable of engaging any woman’s heart. With all
would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so he
      my forming any serious design. These bitter accusations might
“Have you been long here?”

try to concentrate my attention on those netting-needles, on the meshes
Henchard: “Joshua Jopp, sir—by appointment—the new manager.”
“St. John dresses well. He is a handsome man: tall, fair, with blue
days after. By fighting his wife in the presence of customers and by
call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination.
ask repose.
      “Is this,” thought Elizabeth, “meant for me?” and she coloured at
------------------------------------------------------------------------
and himself had entered on the upland so memorable to both,
      preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes,
to her with a reckless skip that innate grace only prevented from being
picked up the leg sulkily and led her cow away, the poor animal limping
Freddy Malins, who was nearing the climax of his story, waved the offer
“You know—and perhaps think well of.”
It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.
unfashioned creatures, but half made up, if one wiser, better, dearer than
tremble. Basil Hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud.
simple drapery accorded well. Her face flushed, too, at the slight

“Set it higher, auctioneer,” said the trusser.
sunrise: I rose at four to see him off.”
to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquillise the mind as
very plain before me. In leaving England, I should leave a loved but


device and motto.
These pictures were in water-colours. The first represented clouds low
They were delighted with the renovation and decorations of their rooms;
      everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas
his hat, laid it on the table and stood up. He seemed to be rehearsing

also present. And removing his pipe a finger’s breadth from his lips,
      he might really soon marry Mr. Darcy’s sister, as by Wickham’s
conduct; he was overbearing—even brilliantly quarrelsome.
extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest.”
forwarder.”
      Darcy, after enquiring of her how Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner did, a
bitten off. The match was blown out.
smile.
she had promised the old woman I should not marry the pretty Munchkin


      they even to be discovered? I have not the smallest hope. It is
better treatment than blows and execration.
 CHAPTER III.
The man was of fine figure, swarthy, and stern in aspect; and he showed
occasionally in the hedge, looked like single russet leaves that had
yet stoops and drinks divine draughts nevertheless.
chained for life to a man who regarded one but as a useful tool?”
      doing, I must and _would_ have paid him; but these violent young
devote your working hours to a monotonous labour wholly void of
afraid of the Kalidahs.”
mutually embraced, and I followed her into the house quite comforted.
Next day he started, journeying south-westward, and did not pause,
fifteen years back), Edward Fairfax Rochester, of Thornfield Hall, in
effect....”
It was the new-fashioned agricultural implement called a horse-drill,
place?”
again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with

Chapter XXI
expressed on receiving new from my friends. I threw the letter on the
Hallward. “We will come some other night.”
beat fast on my casement. I heard the front-door open, and St. John
      society, let him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not
      condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some
      half-an-hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed
“‘Like the painting of a sorrow,’” he repeated, “‘a face without a
myself by a slavish notion of inferiority: on the contrary, I just
had left it behind her in the tram. Maria, remembering how confused the
The fiend pinning down the thief’s pack behind him, I passed over
on to the world’s stage to show the supreme reality of love. A
the young lady took it all very seriously and finally cut a thick slice

could not charm him_.
all; and taties, and such-like that were very needful to her. I seed en

he found something mean in it. Why was it so unconscious and ladylike?
and some of the bystanders gave advice. The battered silk hat was
But he turned a deaf ear to those bird-like chirpings. He talked loud
“And I am so plain, you see, Die. We should never suit.”
above his little eyes, which were pink-veined and raw; and all day long
“Like the painting of a sorrow,
consequent neglect of duty on the part of the attached—mutual alliance
“I often told you that?”
beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the
hands held the wild impulse of his body in check. The porter halted on
fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by
      happy, for she loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come
highest result of his attention to wayside words was that he did indeed
heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I

are safeguarded from suspicion know nothing of. “You ought to marry Mr.
vision made him feel keenly his own poverty of purse and spirit. He was
into the ditch.
standing on the mantelshelf, he saw that the whole place was covered
present whether her attachment is serious or not. But there is no doubt
towards Mr. Rochester, went on.
dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact
a rival was not worth contending for; she deserved only scorn; less,
 CHAPTER II.
Once or twice when he spoke to her at close quarters she laughed and
Helen Burns was near me; the fading fires just showed her coming up the
      and offered her services, or any of her daughters’, if they
this—quite privately. If I should nominate ’ee to succeed him, and


a model of elderly English respectability. Thornfield! that, doubtless,
It was morning, I remember, when I thus awoke to understanding; I had
and, thanks to her, Gabriel himself had taken his degree in the Royal
possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he

didn’t preach what was quite orthodox.”
Mr Kernan was a commercial traveller of the old school which believed
not come back to kill him. He had sailed away in his ship to founder in
      Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself at least that you
her)—and she kindled the bed there; but there was nobody sleeping in
      answer. Could there be finer symptoms? Is not general incivility
two or three miles, his object being to read the progress of affairs
those who appeared to Macbeth on the heath of Forres. ‘You like
vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to me hopes of succour and life.
the bed of the flood, nor hear the breakers boil at their base. But I
in my enterprise.
the accents of a man who made a present of his time.

now, disintegrating at its folds, and headed “This schedule in effect

sacrifice. I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which brought me
but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim. She
as a mane, hid its head and face.

white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a stock-broker, can gain
life as fully as he is mine. No woman was ever nearer to her mate than
      by the approach of the whole party. Jane ran to her uncle and
      conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of
The good apothecary appeared a little puzzled. I was standing before
tell it. This had brought them hither.
Henchard looked on the ground, said nothing more, and turned away.
feeling fellow enough; partial to the unfledged, unfostered, and
been bent upon outwitting him.
in the daytime, and which separated them like iron grills. Seeing this

unchanged. And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender
lay open a large book; and at his side stood Amy Eshton, draped in Mr.

Reader, do you know, as I do, what terror those cold people can put

is your friendship so fatal to young men? There was that wretched boy
“O, of course,” said Mr Power, “great minds can see things.”
liqueurs; and he had heard that the waiters there spoke French and
“Sorry. I’m afraid no one’s there.”
“We shall get you off cannily, Dick: and it will be better, both for
from within and some couples came out. Aunt Kate drew Gabriel aside
the whole up carefully, he directed it to “Mrs. Newson, Three Mariners
phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered
“That’s true.” She hesitated. “Well, I’ve had a very bad time, Nick,
mostly.... Yes,” he went on, sitting down and unfolding Lucetta’s
I would have got past Mr. Rochester’s chamber without a pause; but my


night she brought me two bloody fine cigars—O, the real cheese, you
all going to wash the pot.”
      great use and comfort to us all. And Lady Lucas has been very
A grotesque grin shaped itself on Henchard’s face. Had that safe been
remains of Damer de Rochester, slain at Marston Moor in the time of the
      _my_ dinners are good enough for her. I do not believe she often
friends—in the modern world.”
The Scarecrow and the Woodman now began to fasten the mice to the
“St. John, I am unhappy because you are still angry with me. Let us be
“What sort of ways, Basil?”
But I followed, and he turned again, and said, ‘Do you hear, sir? Go
believe, dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older. But
      and if he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the

curious.
“There will be no difficulty, sir,” said the genial frame-maker,
bubbling of a little brook which runs through Deepden, near our
that a dozen chefs awaited her orders there.


conscious of his alcoholic load. Some others followed, and they stood
He became possessed by an overpowering wish to see Farfrae again that
field-flagons, and seed-lips at the cooper’s; cart-ropes and
“They don’t last, I am told,” muttered his uncle.
long fringed lashes almost touched his cheek. But he still watched the
“All the same as usual.”
ask me to dinner again after saying this, I am afraid, Lady Narborough,
which I had let loose upon the world?
      a short silence.
discourse now. Crofton and I were in the back of the ... pit, you know
smoothing a large cloth. On the sideboard were arrayed dishes and
not, Walton, that in the last moments of my existence I feel that burning
“You are altogether a human being, Jane? You are certain of that?”
narrow passage led into the hall: in crossing it, I perceived my sandal
“Well,” said the senior Commissioner, addressing Henchard, “though the


had always seemed a little proud of their serious and matronly sister.
vexing and soothing him by turns; it was one I chiefly delighted in,
sometimes, what with hard winters, and so many mouths to fill, and
Yet they felt that the true test of any Juliet is the balcony scene of
“If we walk far enough,” said Dorothy, “I am sure we shall sometime
minsters of jelly, red and yellow; a shallow dish full of blocks of
      large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most
Under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest
rambled on Gabriel tried to banish from his mind all memory of the
its silver chime, and the clock its hoarse, vibrating stroke, and then

neither tall nor graceful.
till evening, lest he should mortify Farfrae and his bride, he alighted

      wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his
“Never will, says the vision? But I always woke and found it an empty
     But I also dreamt, which pleased me most,
man—that hyperborean crispness, stringency, and charm, as of a
      struggles to relinquish her, she was ready to allow it a wise and

      the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend,
He got up and locked both doors. At least he would be alone when he
the great box on all their eyes, just as he had done before. Afterward
“I was in my own room, and sitting by the window, which was open: it
They got into a rowboat at the slip and made out for the American’s

master’s—which he had created; it shivered in my heart, like a
diligence into the search of the philosopher’s stone and the elixir

window”—with an effort he got up and walked to the rear window and

An exclamation of horror broke from the painter’s lips as he saw in the
of their father’s helplessness and of their mother’s absence, began



woes—not _my_ loss—and a sombre tearless dismay at the fearfulness of

      they were admitted into the hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited
moods, and I can’t bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell
I—who, though I had no love, had much friendship for him—was hurt by


“What is your trouble?” asked the Lion quietly.
form of a brown liquor, the pig shivered in the wind, the grain of the

but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming
He and I went up to London. He had the advice of an eminent oculist;
      have both, I hope, improved in civility.”

making peace. One day the matron had said to her:
abused your long-suffering, so sullied your name, so outraged your

respond to his touch but he continued to caress it just as he had

“Tell her to be ready by to-morrow then; and here is the schoolroom
cannot kill her yourself, how do you expect me to do it?”

on His behalf a divided allegiance: it must be entire.”
climbing, with smoked hams and local cheeses at the top. They placed

Yet she was curiously listless. She showed no sign of joy when her eyes
interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in
“Is he tame?” asked the woman, opening the door a little wider.
nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he
to travel, and around me gather black tempests to encounter.’ You ran
      and at first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying
metallic and corroding, gave me a sensation as if I had been poisoned.
      had seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her
the ex-corn-merchant as more than one of his other workmen. Henchard
boredom. His head leaned back so far that it rested against the face

have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation.
Basil. I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a
      have attended herself, had _she_ been the culprit, and was

for, either through shyness, or not to disturb his mercantile mood, he
impenetrability is past comprehension.”
town.
      cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as soon as

the parapets of the quay and on the area railings. The lamps were still
not intercept the view I had of the dæmon; but still my sight was
had taken Henchard’s words on trust so absolute as to shame him as he


“Might I, indeed?... And when I ask when my daughter is going to be
apartment might still be there, alive and walking about. I dreaded to
end—but their physical resemblance must be a source of perpetual
    And prim as if

there, bending over the great old Bible, and described from its page
“You’re more than that,” said the Scarecrow, in a grieved tone; “you’re

their wings, and mount beyond ken. God had an errand for me; to bear
motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood
“Stop, Basil! I won’t hear it!” cried Dorian, leaping to his feet. “You

past. Life had come between them.... His eyes darkened, and the crowded

year, and no one has ever heard me before or come to help me.”
inward treasure born with me, which can keep me alive if all extraneous
the Scarecrow.
committed in your early days, Duchess?” he asked, looking at her across

      her; and to _her_ it was equally evident that Jane was yielding to


      or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to
      describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be acceptable

      alone; after honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went
      to her, as well in her hopes as her fear; and after talking with
get stalled in this baking heat.”
On this account he entered the house through his garden, and going up
on.
could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint
half-an-hour since he had seen the clock of the College of Surgeons.


      “You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?”
“It is known that you are not my sister; I cannot introduce you as
awkward silence with her silly sudden laugh. “I have promised to drive
to be traversed by road in the old fashion. People thus waited—the
      “I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, how amazed

      was a compliment of the highest kind. They soon outstripped the
to work for him if he won’t stump up?”
“Well—we must talk of a plan for keeping her in her present belief, and
but Dorian Gray had disappeared. When he looked back, the woman had
was keeping him up so that he could not fall. She crept to the hole,
When Lord Henry had sat down again, Mr. Erskine moved round, and taking
“Mr. John?”
Their vans had just arrived, and were drawn up on each side of the
“Who?” said the girl.

entirely extinct. At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with
      gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was
lost at sea, in the month of November 184—, aged forty-one years.”
“What?”
beautiful Emerald City, and now he is gone he has left the Wise

before the Woodman.
almost like a child. I never saw her myself; but I’ve heard Leah, the
outline of a once dreaded switch which used to lurk there, waiting to

strongly. I tottered, and on regaining my equilibrium retired back a
observed; depicted their shaking of hands; how they probably parted
than the hand which reassuringly brushed my shoulder. “And don’t
      least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs. Forster. I thought I
      “I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two
“I have heard that you think of emigrating, Mr. Henchard?” he said. “Is
      “Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am
“That must be the Emerald City,” said Dorothy.
left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided
      according to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps,”
      The wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself
      feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the indulgence
my life—fool that I was to do’t—and you take advantage of me!”
sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair. When he
weak and tired. I leaned my arms on a table, and my head dropped on
“You spoil my life as an artist by refusing, Dorian. No man comes
sincere—have their sublime moments, when they subdue and rule. I felt
      noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
darkness only came in through the window. Still it was not late; he
yet time to rescind it.
best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of
Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at first I
at the Lion, “if that is the case you may come in, and I will give you
wandering, indeed, in the leafless shrubbery an hour in the morning;
innocent we be: as I know you are of this charge which Mr. Brocklehurst
“And what are the other teachers called?”
waters. This frequently took place, but a high wind quickly dried the

I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous.”
though. I want it to be a delightful gathering.”
“But the fire,” I suggested.
seeing that all the dancers had come back, intervened pacifically:
the conversation of my friend. Study had before secluded me from the
      conversation.
“I am a little,” she answered.
      home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk


to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from

      from the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to
I think he was swearing, but am not certain; however, he was
To live, for me, Jane, is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack
me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder and


      with _them_ was expressed towards the two eldest. By Jane this

walked around. As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked
“Well, I’ll tell you what I think,” said the little man. “You see, when
Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
will I be. I cannot give you up to perdition as a vessel of wrath:
      wretched business. Never, since reading Jane’s second letter, had
under the management of Donald Farfrae as it had never thriven before.
      brother, “because he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too
trees to offer them shade; so that before night Dorothy and Toto and
a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the Frenchman
accident. He spoke very thickly.
turned my prayer to thanksgiving: the Source of Life was also the
These visions faded when I perused, for the first time, those poets
solitude of the spot, and allow my mind’s eye to dwell on whatever
As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew

Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure. How different
the Port and Docks.
workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished
“Where is he?”
      their niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them instantly
me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his
He turned round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind. The
this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture. It was to
it as if he went and laid his genius out to wither, and his strength to
many years to run across to Jersey in the the way of business,
charming.” And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan and opened
cook entered.
came into Winebrenner’s poolroom at Forty-third Street and asked for a
decided to dispense with each other. Elizabeth-Jane’s anxiety to know
about eight feet in height, and proportionably large. After having
past, he had the look of one completely ground down to the last
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but

Glinda the Good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little
what we—” But after all, she plainly had not expected him, and he took
“Oh! my darling! God bless you and reward you!”
in collecting wood for the family fire, and during the night I often


      all night. I knew how it would be. I always said it must be so,

disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor. This, to my
tail to show he knew what she meant.
change has taken place in our little household. Do you remember on

“There—I shan’t see, after all!” cried the disappointed first maid.
and it reminded him of her. It too was prim and pretty. A dull
      quite at leisure.”
      Bennet himself, while his wife seriously commended Mr. Collins
“If you have,” continued the Tin Woodman, “you ought to be glad, for it


This appearance excited our unqualified wonder. We were, as we believed,

“Sir, depend on it, my nerves were not in fault; the thing was real:
London Press! Who would have thought it possible eight years before?
lifting me up and supporting me in a sitting posture, and that more

something secret which he did not wish others to overhear. He repeated
courage, and gathering my feeble remains of strength, I pushed on. I
heard and seen—mere guesses that Henchard and her mother might have
to ten. In front of me was a large building which displayed the magical
shuffling the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curve of the moon
here is my dressing-gown. Now run!”
so as to help them.
had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
      “Yes,” replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, “but
So he led the way and the others followed. They had nearly reached the
“Farewell! I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these
Rochester than you do.”
“Good-night. Good-night.”
“This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event;
remarked. “Happen ye’ve been a dressmaker?”

careless locks of fair hair.
“I hope I never will,” she answered. “I hate careless people. That’s
      of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his
“Ah, ma’am—well ye may say it!” responded the old woman, opening the

sentence was inscribed from time to time and, in an ironical moment,


auctioneer was very large; and all these horned beasts, in travelling
distracted me. I noticed how clumsily her skirt was hooked at the back
and turned towards it. When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks
this horrid apparition, informed me of his path; sometimes he himself,
cannot be too careful. Try and keep Mr. Rochester at a distance:
may converse with me.” Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come

descent. In the act there was the inelegance of one whose feelings are
edged with fur.

character and constitution, seeing a hideous future opening to me—I
sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should
green cap with a hawk’s feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak
little solemn with the feel of those long winters, a little complacent

might one day, by taking a long voyage, see with my own eyes the little
the subject-matter of the artist, but the morality of art consists in
great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their
turned my head away and wept. ‘All right,’ I said, ‘I’m glad it’s a
region of beauty and delight. There, Margaret, the sun is for ever

I dangers dared; I hindrance scorned;
“The fact is that Mr. Farfrae here, he said, ‘Come up and stop with me
loitered in front of windows waiting until it was time for a solitary
“He’s afraid, he’s waited so long. He thought you might be
lane yet hid it, but it approached. I was just leaving the stile; yet,
      from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be the
affection. Already I had made visible progress: that very morning I had

------------------------------------------------------------------------
still bore witness of the orderliness of his mind. Some new pieces of
did, even you would turn from me. You laugh. Don’t laugh.”
Had she been envious she might have hated the woman; but she did not do
at Lowood look, with their hair combed behind their ears, and their

“If I did not approve it would be no matter! I wish to go away. My
stables where a coachman smoothed and combed the horse or shook music
      “I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for


against the door.
began to feel ill at ease. He asked himself what else could he have
ten o’clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that
sought to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no less than

      instead of the aunt; and she was undetermined whether most to be
your own speedy ruin.”
“Well, of course, I didn’t know. I don’t drink it because of my oath,
“What, not necessary to write ladies’-hand?” cried the joyous
stops, she was suddenly sent to the very bottom. Even in that obscure
“Where do the sailor live?” asked a spectator, when they had vainly
day after that, and the next thirty years?”
day of the week, forming a little world of leggings, switches, and
      his reason.

notice. “It is the first time in my life that I have been so much

name?”
himself. We can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he

“No, indeed!” I interjected.
the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates and
      and telling again what had already been written; and when it
the flowers he sends are lovely.”
We walked along the North Strand Road till we came to the Vitriol Works

and whiskers still dark, which gives him something of the appearance of

sight of old acquaintances, and the matchings of invitations: “Are you
      yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility
school? ‘I won’t keep you,’ I says. ‘You must get a job for yourself.’


Neither in back street nor in front street, however, could the
I should not shrink from you with disgust as I did from her: in your
I thanked her for her considerate choice, and as I really felt fatigued
      any attention to herself, she was very little disposed to approve
_To Mrs. Saville, England._

painted it. What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
thankful at being afforded a loophole of reparation. The harm was done.
I reflected, and in truth it appeared to me the only possible one:
“I did,” said I, dropping my voice, so that Leah, who was still
“I want the Dorian Gray I used to paint,” said the artist sadly.
while he blandly held out his right to the Illustrious Personage.
instance, had I devoted to studying the arrangement of this very
Henchard went home. The morning having now fully broke he lit his fire,
things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their
hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies.”
water. She looked at herself in profile and readjusted a hairpin above
am going to ride at eleven. We might go together, and I will take you
female in the fair—though it may want a little bringing out.” Then,
him, and a terror to most of his relations, whom he bullied in turn.
Mr. Eyre. Have we anything else to stay for?” he inquired of Mr. Mason.
seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace, I uttered a silent

particularly dangerous, as the slightest sound, such as even speaking
After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the unopened bottle of
will not suffer further scrutiny; it seems to deny, by a mocking
of an overripe apple which might have been left there and forgotten.
      sure Lizzy will be very happy—I am sure she can have no
to remember what had happened afterwards in the dream. I remembered
room besides you? Have you plotted to drown me?”
“They are both in a very melancholy position, and that’s true!”
above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of beauty still more
      father and mother.
      powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and

      a stream of some natural importance was swelled into greater, but
      irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful
straight-laced, but he could not forget that Mr M’Coy had recently made
guise. I did not know it, even when, on the occasion of Mesrour’s
      Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite,
from morning till night; we did what we liked, went where we liked: we
have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of
bilberries. I would fain at the moment have become bee or lizard, that

he had been in the habit of doing for some time.
and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my
“I suppose so,” answered the Scarecrow. “When I have brains, I shall
      Darcy acknowledged, that the partridges were remarkably well

beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my

ignorance of Mrs. Henchard were sufficient to deprive her history of

pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall
